Every four years, the Copenhagen-based European Environmental Agency (EEA) publishes its report "Climate change, impacts and vulnerability in Europe." Over the years, the findings have become more alarming; new records have been established.The&nbsp;past three years have been the warmest in the European record, global sea levels are at an all-time high, and the decline of the polar ice sheet is accelerating.Global climate change has substantially increased the probability of various recent extreme weather and climate events in Europe, warns this year's EEA report, an assessment of past and projected climate change along with its impacts on ecosystems and society.As land and sea temperatures increase and precipitation patterns change, wet regions are becoming wetter - especially in winter - and dry regions drier, particularly in summer.Climate-related extremes such as heat waves, heavy precipitation and droughts are increasing in frequency and intensity in many regions.High risks for coastal areas and southern EuropeAll European regions are vulnerable to climate change, but some regions will experience more negative impacts than others, the report states.Coastal areas and floodplains in western parts of Europe in particular face an increased risk of flooding from rising sea levels, along with a possible increase in storm surges. This is also increasing the flood risk, and has contributed to erosion along European coasts.Coastal erosion due to floods and storms threatens the German island SyltIn Germany, flood-related losses can be expected to increase considerably as a result of climate change, a separate study by the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK) shows."Because of rising temperatures, evaporation and therefore humidity have increased. This makes extreme rainfall and flooding more likely,"&nbsp;explained PIK researcher Fred Hattermann.Southern and southeastern Europe are projected to be climate change hotspots. The region is already increasingly experiencing heat extremes, and decreases in precipitation and river flows. This has heightened the risk of more severe droughts, lower crop yields, biodiversity loss and forest fires."Heat waves have already caused tens of thousands of premature deaths in southern Europe,"&nbsp;said Hans-Martin F ssel who is among the authors of the EEA report."Countries like Spain are increasingly building water desalination plants to deal with water scarcity, and in some cases even large cities have had to rely on water supply by tankers."Far-reaching economic impactsAccording to the EEA, the observed changes in climate are already having wide-ranging impacts on ecosystems and economic sectors in Europe. As a result of ocean acidification, seawater&nbsp;warming and the expansion of oxygen-depleted dead zones, various marine species - including commercially important fish stocks - are migrating northwards.Many land-based animals and plant species, too, are changing their lifecycles and migrating northwards and to higher altitudes. Regional extinctions have been observed; various invasive alien species have established themselves or expanded their range.According to F ssel, climate change also affects tourism in southern European countries: "It simply gets too hot in summer."Forest fires are becoming more frequent in southern European countriesThere are also human health impacts, as heat waves hit cities and climate-sensitive infectious diseases carried by insects - for instance&nbsp;Lyme disease linked to ticks, or dengue fever that is related to the Asian tiger mosquito - gain ground.Europe is also being&nbsp;affected by climate change outside Europe, through trade, infrastructure, geopolitical and security risks, and migration.The EEA warns that the economic costs of climate change - even at relatively modest levels - can be very high. Since 1980, climate-related extreme events in EEA member countries are said to have cost more than 400 billion euros ($428 billion) in economic losses.Available estimates of the future costs of climate change in Europe consider only some sectors, and show considerable uncertainty. Still, the projected damage costs from climate change are highest in the Mediterranean region.Mitigation and adaptation neededAdaptation to climate change is said to be necessary to reduce short- and long-term risks. Ecosystem-based approaches should be combined with technological solutions; governmental agencies and the private sector should be involved.The magnitude of future climate change and its impacts depend on the effectiveness of global climate mitigation efforts, states the report."Mitigation is central to limit the long-term risks of climate change,"&nbsp;F ssel pointed out. According to him, this applies at the political as well as for the individual level.Both F ssel and Hattermann believe that last year's Paris Agreement was a major step forward. However, both of them fear that&nbsp;the Trump administration in the USA could be a major setback.In September 2015, 10,500 firefighters were called to tackle forest fires in California. They were unable to prevent 1,400 homes from destruction. The blaze was fueled by hot and dry weather - as a result of climate change.The polar bear has become a symbol of climate change, as its habitat is threatened by global warming. The Arctic predator hunts from ice sheets that are fast disappearing. As the ice retreats, they are unable to stalk their prey, and risk starvation. By 2050, scientists warn that the Arctic could be ice-free in summer.Just visible from the air is a little wood hut on the island of Spitzbergen in Norway. It is home to the Arctic research base where French and German scientists are studying climatic and atmospheric changes in the polar region, including the damage done to permafrost and glacier systems.A goat watches a mountain expedition on the Swiss Aletsch Glacier, a UNESCO World Heritage site. It was around a kilometer longer in 1860 than it is today. Due to global warming, the glacier is shrinking by up to 50 meters per year. With the rate of retreat increasing, scientists fear Europe's biggest glacier could disappear altogether. the landscape looks peaceful, bathed in a mystical light. But the actual situation is far more unsettling. This aerial view shows Central Luzon in the Philippines, completely flooded after it was hit by a typhoon and heavy rain. People were drowned or buried under landslides, and half a million were forced to flee their homes. The country is hit by 20 typhoons each year. escape is all that's left. The World Bank warns that if global warming continues unimpeded, another 100 million people will be under threat. Poor people in parts of Africa and South Asia are at particular risk. Drought and flooding threaten crops - leading to hunger, disease and high food prices.Climate change often hits children the hardest, through no fault of their own. Studies have found that economic problems exacerbated by drought can have profound social impacts, such as in an increase in child marriages, for example. Families may marry off their underage daughters earlier to have fewer mouths they have to feed.Elephants produce huge quantities of manure. At Munich's Hellabrunn Zoo in Germany, one local utility is turning their waste into electric power. Around 2,000 tons of biowaste provides enough power for a hundred homes. Could this be a model for an African school? In any case, climate change is forcing new ways of thinking in the search for green energy.The Rhine River is Europe's busiest waterway for shipping - but climate change is affecting business. Ongoing drought means shipping firms would be forced to use shorter vessels that can navigate shallower waters. If ships aren't able to set off, more goods have to be transported by road - which is more expensive.Healthy coral reefs are like a blooming garden. But global warming is bleaching the life out of them. Corals have a symbiotic relationship with algae, which are vital to their health. But as the water heats up, they expel the algae. If warmer water temperatures persist, a lack of nutrients calcifies the corals, which makes their color fade and causes the organisms to die.Global warming also has its benefits. In recent years, wine is being produced on Germany's northernmost island, Sylt. Ever more vineyards are being established at higher altitudes and further north - even Scandinavia now has some. Global warming also means earlier harvests and sweeter grapes. Author: Karin J ger / rr, ng