Benoit Hamon secured the French Socialist Party's presidential&nbsp;nomination on Sunday, beating rival Manuel Valls. Initial results gave Hamon 58 percent of the vote and Valls only 42.Valls officially conceded defeat shortly&nbsp;after the results were announced, saying that Hamon "is the candidate of our political family," and wished him the best of luck.Macron quit as economy minister in August and launched his independent presidential bid in November. The 39-year-old centrist formed his own political movement, En Marche (Forward), and is seen as a reformer. He's never held elected office, but a December poll named him France's most popular politician. He's voiced admiration for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.The National Front leader has adopted a more moderate tone than her anti-Semitic father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. But she still takes a hard line on immigration, saying children of irregular migrants should not have access to public education. She also wants France to withdraw from the eurozone and have a referendum on EU membership. It's predicted she'll advance to the second round. A surprise winner of the right-wing Republicans primaries, the socially conservative Fillon is seen to represent the interests of France's Catholic middle class. An admirer of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he supports a liberal economic policy. Until Penelopegate struck, he was widely projected as the winner of a run-off against Le Pen. In a runoff against former French PM Manuel Valls in the Socialist primary, Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. The 49-year-old supports a universal basic income and wants to reduce the traditional work week to 35 hours. He has also spoken in support of legalizing cannabis and increased investment in renewable energy. Author: Samantha Early In a victory speech to supporters, Hamon, 49, spoke of his party's future:&nbsp;&nbsp;"Tonight, the left raises its head, it turns toward the future, and&nbsp;it wants to win."Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. He supports a universal basic income and wants to reduce the traditional work week to 35 hours. He has also spoken in support of legalizing cannabis and increased investment in renewable energy. Valls, on the other hand, has called himself a more "Clintonite" leftist&nbsp;with a strong belief in pragmatism and individual responsibility.Organizers of the primary vote, which was a run-off after the field was narrowed down to Hamon and Valls last week, said turnout was quite high. Some 1.3 million party members went to the polls, bringing some much-needed stamina to the beleaguered French left. The latest polls conducted a few ago put the Socialists in fifth place, well behind far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen, independent Emmanuel Macron,&nbsp;conservative candidate Francois Fillon and former European lawmaker Jean-Luc Melenchon.Both Hamon and Valls have held positions in the cabinet of current President Francois Hollande, also a Socialist. Hamon was minister of social economy and briefly national education minister, while Valls was prime minister for two years until he resigned in order to run for president. Hollande's low popularity&nbsp;has been partially blamed for the dismal support for the Socialists, and the president announced in December that he would not seek re-election.Fillon scandal threatens to derail competitionIn the meantime, however, a scandal has erupted around Fillon that might also give the leftists reason to celebrate. After campaigning as the no-nonsense, anti-corruption candidate, allegations have emerged recently suggesting that Fillon paid his wife a generous public salary for a job she never actually held. The Les Republicains candidate said he had filed papwerwork with a judge on Friday proving that his wife had taken meetings, attended events, and completed paperwork in his name during the time in question.The first round of France's presidential election is set for April 23, to be followed by a run-off between the top two candidates on May 7 if no candidate wins an absolute majority in the first round.&nbsp;es/sms (AFP, dpa, Reuters)