Warriors coach, Kalisto Pasuwa has received backing from his boss and is likely to get a contract extension when the two parties meet in the coming few days. BY HENRY MHARAPasuwa has been under the spotlight following the team s early exit from the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) tournament, with some critics calling for the former Dynamos coach to step down.However, Pasuwa has received the support of Zifa boss, Philip Chiyangwa, who actually thinks that the coach performed well above expectations.Chiyangwa appeared in a video posted on social media congratulating Pasuwa for a job well done. I want to sincerely thank the Warriors for a good performance and to coach Pasuwa for ensuring the team did well. In my personal opinion, I have to congratulate the coach, who, despite all the adversity, gave his best and no one expected him to perform any magic in Gabon. He did what he could do and the boys showed what they could, he said. The country has had a lot of economic problems that cut across every sector, including football, but the team, under Pasuwa, went on to play well. This comes a few days before Zifa meet Pasuwa to review the coach s contract. Pasuwa signed a two-year contract, which is reviewed annually. The first year lapses on Wednesday, at which the parties will meet for a review.According to Pasuwa s manager, Gibson Mahachi, the coach s contract demanded him to qualify the Warriors for the Afcon tournament, which he did in style doing so with a game to spare.However, it is from the team s performance at the tournament that some critics feel Pasuwa is still a lightweight on the big stage.His sympathisers believes there were other factors, including the team s inadequate preparations, that led to the Warriors poor showing at Afcon. Former Warriors coach, Sunday Chidzambwa, seen as the best local coach the country has produced, having led the team to their first Afcon finals, and Dynamos to the finals of the Caf Champions League, has suggested that Pasuwa should assist a foreign coach.Chidzambwa feels it would be folly for Zifa to fire Pasuwa, but that he should be made an assistant under an experienced coach, whom he can understudy and take over in future.The Warriors, in Group B, arguably the group of death at the Afcon, drew 2-2 against Algeria before losing 2-0 and 4-2 to Senegal and Tunisia, respectively, to bow out of the tournament at the group stage.