China on Tuesday urged the new US administration of President Donald Trump to exercise extreme caution over the South China Sea, reiterating its claim to the disputed Spratly Islands.Beijing's comments come a day after the Trump administration vowed to defend its interests and territories located in international waters, including those in the South China Sea.Chinese media reacted defiantly after prospective US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Beijing would be barred access to parts of the South China Sea. Editorials warned that such actions could lead to war. (13.01.2017) As Donald Trump prepares to take over the reins of the White House, observers worldwide remain unsure and concerned how the US policy toward China would shift under a Trump presidency. DW examines. (19.01.2017) During a TV interview, US President-elect Donald Trump criticized several of China's policies, such as those on tariffs, North Korea and the South China Sea. Washington's one-China policy dates back to the 1970s. (12.12.2016) "We urge the United States to respect the facts, speak and act cautiously to avoid harming the peace and stability of the South China Sea," Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a news briefing in Beijing. "China has indisputable sovereignty over the South China Sea islands and their adjacent waters. The United States is not a party to the South China Sea issue."US President Donald Trump's press secretary, Sean Spicer, on Monday warned China that "the US is going to make sure we protect our interests" in the South China Sea.&nbsp;"If those islands are, in fact, in international waters and not part of China proper, yeah, we'll make sure we defend international interests from being taken over by one country," he told reporters in Washington DC.Spicer's comments signal a sharp departure from President Barack Obama's cautious approach to handling China's assertive claim to the disputed territories.The Trump administration's pledge to defend its interests in the region sparked a stinging reaction in Chinese state media, which warned that such actions would require Washington to "wage war."China's "Global Times" newspaper, an influential paper known for its hawkish rhetoric, urged China to strengthen its nuclear arsenal to "force the US to respect it."Risk of escalationChina has reclaimed more than 3,000&nbsp;acres of land, building military-grade infrastructure on reefs and islets mostly in the Spratly Island chain.Beijing's most recent round of military exercises in the disputed South China Sea has also unnerved Beijing's regional neighbors. Aside from being energy rich, the disputed waters are also a key shipping channel. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also have claims to the waters.However, reports suggest that Trump plans to build up the US' naval and military presence in the South China Sea, as well as stage a blockading operation to counter China's presence in the region.US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson suggested last week that the US would harden its stance towards China's actions&nbsp;in the disputed waters&nbsp;and called Beijing's building of bases on the disputed islands&nbsp;illegal."We're going to have to send China a clear signal that, first the island building stops, and second, your access to those islands is also not going to be allowed," he said.Washington-based South China Sea expert Mira Rapp-Hooper described the US' threats to China's access to the South China Sea as "incredible," adding that they have no basis in international law."A blockade - which is what would be required to actually bar access - is an act of war," the analyst&nbsp;for the Center for a New American Security&nbsp;said. "The Trump administration has begun to draw red lines in Asia that they will almost certainly not be able to uphold, but they may nonetheless be very destabilizing to the relationship with China, invite crises, and convince the rest of the world that the United States is an unreliable partner."dm/se&nbsp;(Reuters, AFP)China is expanding the construction of its facilities on Fiery Cross Reef. Provided by the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative (AMTI), this June 28, 2015 photo reveals Beijing has nearly completed a 3,000 meter (9,800-foot) airstrip, long enough to accommodate most Chinese military aircraft. Two helipads, up to 10 satellite communications antennas, and one possible radar tower are also visible.Reclamation on Fiery Cross Reef, which lies on the west side of the Spratly Islands, began in August of 2014 and its principal landmass was finished by November. Dredgers have created a land mass that spans the entire existing reef and is approximately 3,000 meters long and 200-300 meters wide.This picture taken last November shows construction work being carried out on Fiery Cross Reef. The reef reportedly already houses a helicopter landing pad, a 300-meter-long wharf, a harbor large enough to dock military tankers, barracks and artillery emplacements.This reef was one of the first facilities to finish principal land reclamation. This recent picture shows that a radar tower is nearing completion at the north end of the land mass. According to AMTI, a new large multi-level military facility has been built in the center of the island. Up to six surveillance towers are being constructed alongside four possible weapons towers.Beginning in early 2015, Mischief Reef - also located in the Spratlys - has undergone extensive reclamation activity. Experts say that the recent widening of the southern entrance to the reef, coupled with sightings of Chinese navy vessels, may suggest a future role for the reclaimed reef as a naval base. Taken on March 17, this image shows a chain of small land formations at the reef.Significant construction on Gaven Reef began in 2014, with a total of 114,000 square meters of land already created. Satellite pictures show just how fast construction has progressed on the reef. A new artificial island was created between March (left) and August (right) 2014.According to AMTI, China has had a troop garrison on Gaven Reef since 2003, which has included a large supply platform where ships can dock. Experts say a new main square building in the reef appears to be an anti-aircraft tower.As seen in this image, the basic process of expanding these features involves dredging sand from the seafloor and dumping it onto the reefs. The structure is raised above the high water line, hiding the status of the bank or reef beneath. The sand is then smoothed out and workers surround the island with a concrete barrier to protect against erosion and storm surge, and begin construction.China claims most of the potentially energy-rich waterway, through which $5 trillion in ship-borne trade passes every year. The US Pacific Fleet commander recently said China was "creating a great wall of sand" in the South China Sea, causing serious concerns about its territorial intentions. Beijing argues it is asserting its so-called "historic rights" to maritime resources in the area.The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also have overlapping claims, which have led to territorial disputes in the area. Last summer, China's deployment of a massive oil rig in waters also claimed by Hanoi escalated tensions in the region, sparking a standoff at sea and violent anti-Chinese demonstrations in Vietnam.Washington is concerned China's efforts carry a military dimension that could undermine the US' naval and economic power in the Pacific, and has weighed sending warships and surveillance aircraft within 12 nautical miles of the new artificial islands. Washington has repeatedly called on Beijing and others to end reclamation projects in the disputed waters, but Beijing rejects those demands.The Philippines filed a formal plea at the UN last year, challenging Beijing's territorial claims. Manila said China's reclamation activities are causing "irreversible and widespread damage to the biodiversity and ecological balance of the South China Sea." It also claimed that the destruction of coral reef systems is estimated to cause economic losses valued at $100 million annually. Author: Gabriel Dom nguez &nbsp;