Gauland, who quit Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) in 2013, told the tabloid newspaper "Bild" Tuesday he would relinquish his lesser AfD roles in the regional state of Brandenburg.His posts of AfD Brandenburg chairman and leader of the&nbsp;AfD's opposition group in Brandenburg's Potsdam assembly would go to his local deputy, Andreas Kalbitz, Gauland said."At the regional party conference in April I won't stand again," Gauland told "Bild."On Sunday, the AfD's Brandenburg branch nominated the veteran politician and jurist&nbsp;to head its regional list of candidates to contest Germany's Bundestag election due nationwide on September 24.Taboo breachSince 2014, the anti-foreigner AfD has won opposition footholds in 10&nbsp;of 16 assemblies in Germany's regional states, and has polled&nbsp;ahead of the Greens and the post-communist Left party in recent nationwide surveys.The AfD's rise breaks with a taboo in post-World War II Germany, where guilt from&nbsp;the Nazi era runs deep.If state-level success is any indication, the AfD will likely win Bundestag seats this fallLast week, Gauland, a rival of AfD co-leader Frauke Petry, defended Holocaust-denial remarks made by Bj rn H cke, the AfD's Thuringia state branch leader, claiming H cke had "not said anything for which he must be ashamed."&nbsp;On January 17, H cke, a history teacher on sabbatical (pictured above (R)&nbsp;alongside Gauland), described Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and called for "a 180-degree shift in the politics of remembrance,"&nbsp;triggering a&nbsp;public uproar.'Disgrace' for GermanySchulz, the center-left Social Democrat's designated top candidate,&nbsp;retorted last Sunday that "the party of the H cke's, Gauland's and Petry's is no alternative for Germany but instead a disgrace for the Federal Republic."Supporters of Schulz hope the long-time European politician will be able to counter the AfD's anti-EU argumentsLast Friday, H cke was barred by authorities from entering Buchenwald, the former Nazi concentration camp, as Germany marked International Holocaust Remembrance Day.The Buchenwald memorial site, near Weimar, lies within Thuringia state.Gauland praise for TrumpOn Monday, Gauland praised President Donald Trump's edict banning Muslims from seven nations from entering the USA, saying Merkel should follow Trump's example so such countries would "get a grip" on security and poverty.Gauland made headlines last year after&nbsp;insulting German sportsman Jerome Boateng, saying "people find him good as a footballer, but they don't want to have a Boateng as a neighbor."Between 1987 until 1991, Gauland - then a CDU functionary - ran the chancellery of Hesse state's then premier Walter Wallmann. Gauland quit the CDU in 2013 and switched to the upstart AfD, which was then focused on opposition to eurozone bailouts.The leader of the Alternative for Germany, Frauke Petry, said police could use guns as a last resort to prevent illegal border crossings, pointing out "that's the law." What began as a euroskeptic party has turned into an anti-establishment and anti-EU force, claiming up to 25 percent of votes in German state elections in March 2016 and taking second place in Chancellor Angela Merkel's home state.Many believe Brexit and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential elections could give new impetus to France's National Front. Established in 1972 and now led by Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in 2011, the National Front is a nationalist party that uses populist rhetoric to promote its anti-immigration and anti-EU positions.The leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, is one of Europe's most prominent right-wing politicians. He was convicted in December for asking a crowd in 2014 if they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the country, but no penalty was imposed. His party is considered anti-EU and anti-Islam. It is leading polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections and currently holds 15 seats.Nikos Michaloliakos is the head of Greece's neo-fascist party Golden Dawn. He was arrested in September 2013 along with dozens of other party members and charged with forming a criminal organization. Michaloliakos was released in July 2015. Golden Dawn won 18 seats in parliamentary elections in September 2016. The party holds anti-immigrant views and favors a defense agreement with Russia.Hungary's anti-immigration, populist and economic protectionist party Jobbik aspires to be in the government by 2018. Now Hungary's third-largest party, it won 20 percent of votes in the last elections held in 2014. It wants a referendum on EU membership. Jobbik also advocates criminalizing "sexual deviancy," submitting a bill targeting homosexuals in 2012. Jobbik is headed by Gabor Vona.After Trump's election, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson said in an interview with Swedish TV: "There is a movement in both Europe and the United States where the establishment is being challenged. It is clearly happening here as well." The Sweden Democrats call for restricting immigration, are against allowing Turkey to join the EU and want a referendum on EU membership. Norbert Hofer of Austria's nationalist Freedom Party lost the recent presidential runoff by a mere 30,000 votes, after being front-runner in the first round. Former Green party leader Alexander Van der Bellen won 50.3 percent of the vote, with Hofer gaining 49.7 percent. The Freedom Party's leader campaigns for the strengthening of the country's borders and limiting benefits for immigrants.The leader of the hard-right People's Party - Our Slovakia, Marian Kotleba, has said, "Even one immigrant is one too many." On another occasion, he called NATO a "criminal organization." This Slovak party favors leaving the EU as well as the eurozone. It won 8 percent of the vote in March 2016 elections, securing 14 seats in the country's 150-member parliament.ipj/kms&nbsp;(dpa, AFP)