Silvio Berlusconi's appeal against a conviction for hiring an underage sex worker has opened. Busy doing community service for a separate tax fraud conviction, the former Italian premier missed the trial's first day. (20.06.2014) Italy's scandal-ridden former premier Silvio Berlusconi is back in court yet again. This time he is facing charges of having bribed an opposition politician to swap sides. (11.02.2014) Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has faced down his critics in yet another confidence vote. But his country still hangs in the balance, dealing with a dire economy and urgent need for reforms. (14.10.2011) Prime Minister Mario Monti has said he plans to step down once the Italian government has agreed on a budget for 2013. The news came just hours after Silvio Berlusconi declared his own wish to become premier once again. (09.12.2012) Despite warnings that the outcome of Italy s referendum on constitutional reforms could lead to a Brexit-like stalemate, Italy s "No" camp is ignoring the doomsday scenario. Megan Williams reports from Rome. (30.11.2016) Berlusconi will be required to stand trial later this year over charges that he bribed witnesses while being investigated for allegations that he paid to have sex with young women.Judge Carlo Ottone De Marchi set April 5 as the date of the trial, which is to be held in Milan.The charges are related to a case from several years ago in which the former Italian prime minister was accused of paying to have sex with a 17-year-old Moroccan named Karima El Mahroug, better known by her stage name Ruby the Heartstealer. Though initially convicted and sentenced to seven years in prison, Berlusconi was cleared in 2015 following an appeal.Now, the ex-prime minister is accused of having given around 10 million euros ($11 million) in payments and gifts to witnesses in the case in exchange for them testifying in his favor. Berlusconi has denied any wrongdoing, insisting that he was merely being generous.Ongoing legal battlesHis lawyer, Federico Cecconi, responded acerbically to the court order. "There is a concrete chance of a judge agreeing that an offense of generosity has been committed," Cecconi said, according to the AFP news agency.The 80-year-old media tycoon was originally to have stood trial with others facing corruption charges, but his case was made separate due to his health conditions.Even if he were convicted, Berlusconi would likely not face jail time thanks to Italy's restrictions on prison sentences for the elderly.Though he remains the head of his Forza Italia political party, Berlusconi has seen his influence decline in recent years, thanks in part to numerous legal challenges he has faced. In 2013, he was barred from seeking office after being convicted of tax fraud.blc/sms &nbsp;(AFP, AP, Reuters)