SECESSIONIST Mthwakazi Republic Party (MRP) leader, Mqondisi Moyo, has quit his government post to concentrate on opposition politics, amid allegations he is a State security agent. By KHANYILE MLOTSHWAMoyo, who served as accounting assistant at the Agricultural Extension Services (Agritex)in Matabeleland North province, announced his resignation on Wednesday, citing conflict of interest between his political beliefs and that of his employer. I have announced my resignation because there are people who go around claiming that I am a CIO (Central Intelligence Organisation) operative, he said. Their reasoning is that how can I be a civil servant and also be in opposition politics? It is mostly my people, who are making these claims. These claims have been made despite the fact that this is the 13th month I have been working without a salary. Moyo said he had resigned because of his forced transfer from Bulawayo offices to Bindura in Mashonaland Central province. I saw the transfer as a trap. If I had gone to Bindura, they would tell me that it is a political lie that Zimbabwe is made up of two nations. They will ask me why do I have a problem with people coming from other regions to work here and to farm here, if I can also go and work in another region. In a letter dated December 30, 2016, Moyo said he would officially quit government service on April 1 this year. My resignation from the service is necessitated by the unfair labour practice by the Public Service Commission, as the employer, Agriculture ministry, as the parent ministry, as well as Agritex head office. I, hereby, refer to the unprocedural transfer, which was initiated by the Public Service Commission on May 11, 2015 referenced P41879/2, part of the letter read. I further put it categorically clear that my transfer to Mashonaland Central was punitive. I quote section 13(4), which reads: No transfer shall be used as a punitive measure except pursuant to the disciplinary procedures provided for in part VIII . Both my transfer and cessation of my salary is tantamount to punishment and to cause untold suffering to my person and family, which I feel is inhuman, unethical and lacks merit. 