German politics and Martin Schulz - until now, the connection could be summed up in one word: W rselen. W rselen is a city of 38,000 residents, just north of Aachen, in the west of Germany. It is where 61-year-old Martin Schulz grew up. And it is where he still lives. He was the city's mayor for 11 years, from 1987 until 1998, and ran a bookshop there with his sister.Until now, Schulz has been a European politician: He was a European parliamentarian, the leader of the center-left Social Democratic Party's (SPD) national group in Europe, and the leader of the EU socialists' block. He was the socialists' top candidate in the 2014 European election, and served as the president of the European Parliament from 2012 to 2017. But now, Schulz has come into the fold as a national politician in Germany.'I was a pig'As a young man, Martin Schulz also experienced his toughest times in W rselen. The son of a policeman, he was the youngest of five children. He became an alcoholic as a teen and was not allowed to complete his high school graduation. In the mid-1970s, at age 20, he was unemployed for a year. Today, Schulz speaks openly about his past: "I was a pig, and not a very nice student."But he was also active in the SPD during that time. When he became his city's mayor at age 32, it made him the youngest city leader in all of North Rhine-Westphalia. He became a member of the SPD's Aachen district executive board in 1984, and has led it for the last 20 years. Schulz has also been a member of the SPD's national party leadership since 1999, serving on the executive board and executive committee - he proudly stresses that his 18 years there make him the party's "oldest serving member."Schulz became president of the EU Parliament in 2012Surprisingly freshHis Rhenish character, which often shines through, makes him a popular guest on talk shows. Schulz rarely avoids a confrontation, but that may also be what makes the 62-year-old seem so surprisingly fresh when it comes to debating political issues at home in Germany.&nbsp;He recently told the German "S ddeutsche Zeitung" newspaper that fairness and democracy were being called into question these days."Desperation threatens democracy," he said. "When people have the feeling that they are doing something for society but that society isn't doing anything for them, doesn't respect them, then they become radical. When people are not being protected by democracy, they look for alternatives."Schulz speaks clearly when it comes to confronting the spread of right-wing populism, too: "I am often accused of being too impulsive. But you won't get anywhere with right-wing extremists if you use finely crafted arguments. Sometimes a rough block calls for a rough chisel."Strong words on Russia, the EU and IsraelSchulz has proven time and again, in Brussels and Strasbourg, that he can pack a punch on the issues that will confront him in German domestic politics. On Russia under President Vladimir Putin: "What Russia is doing is entirely unacceptable. The societal concept, the worldview, behind Russia's aggressive actions has absolutely nothing in common with our European philosophy of mutual respect." And on his favorite project, the European Union: "The EU finds itself in a woeful state. Centrifugal, extreme forces within it are winning elections and referendums. If we start to question the core of the European project now, we are playing with the future of our next generation."Gabriel wants Schulz to stand for chancellorSchulz became famous for a speech he delivered in 2014. Addressing the Israeli Knesset, in German, he openly criticized the government's settlement policy. The speech caused an uproar and a number of Israeli parliamentarians left the chamber in loud protest.Dream results within the SPDSchulz's clear words are perhaps also why he is so surprisingly popular. According to the latest opinion polls, he is as popular among Germans as Chancellor Angela Merkel of the conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU). He is also far more popular than SPD leader and current Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel. Now Gabriel wants Schulz to stand as the party's candidate for chancellor. During the 2014 European elections, he took 27.3 percent of the vote in Germany when he ran as the SPD's top EU candidate. It was a better result than Peer Steinbr ck received six months earlier as the party's candidate for German chancellor (25.7 percent).People in the party like Schulz, too: In September 2013, he was elected to be the SPD's European commissioner, winning 98 percent of the vote - clearly the best result of any of the SPD's new board members.&nbsp;