Zimbabwe will be looking for a fast start when they play against Tunisia in their important final Group B match of the Africa Cup of Nations finals here tonight. BY Kevin Mapasure in Libreville, GabonWarriors captain Willard Katsande gestures during Sunday s 2-2 draw against AlgeriaThe Warriors were caught cold in the match against Senegal where they conceded two goals in the first 15 minutes of the match.They also conceded within the first quarter of an hour against Algeria, but unlike in the Senegal match they managed to recover.It is the start that has been a cause for concern and while they will be looking to shoot out of the blocks they are targeting a more solid performance.Warriors captain Willard Katsande conceded that they will need to improve in the way they approach the early stages of the match.He said that after the Senegal defeat they had discussed among themselves how they can improve in order to win the Tunisia clash. We sat down and spoke as players after the Senegal defeat. What was important after such a setback was to start thinking forward and not dwell in the misery. We have a good chance of going through so we just need to go there and give it everything. The first quarter of the match will be very important for us. It is an area where we have failed in so far and we need improvement, Katsande said. The Kaizer Chiefs midfielder said that they had learned their lessons from the first two matches and they backed themselves to complete the job in tonight s match. Tunisia managed to bounce back after defeat to Algeria so why can t we do the same. We still back ourselves and the belief is still there. We think of ourselves as a good side, who deserve to go to the quarter-finals. Only a win gives Zimbabwe a chance of qualifying to the next round as the go into the third round of matches sitting at the bottom of the log with a solitary point from the first two matches.In addition to three points, Zimbabwe will be hoping that Senegal, who won their first two matches, get a positive result against Algeria.Algeria, like Zimbabwe, have one point in the bag so far and also need an outright win against Senegal to stand a chance of qualifying.Tunisia have three points and a draw might just be enough for them to go through.Both matches which kick off simultaneously have the potential to be explosive as three teams tussle to join Senegal in the quarterfinals.