After his disappointing Africa Cup of Nations on home soil with Gabon, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang discussed his future on the "Team Duga" radio show with Christophe Dugarry on Radio Monte Carlo on Tuesday. Asked whether he was toying with the idea of a transfer as Borussia Dortmund struggle this season, the 27-year-old said that it was occupying his thoughts a lot.&nbsp;"That's the question I'm asking myself at the moment. It is a particular moment [for me]. I am really reflecting on a possible departure this coming summer," Aubameyang said.&nbsp;Aubameyang may think Dortmund pose less of a threat to Bayern Munich now than on his arrival at the clubThe striker, who already has 16 Bundesliga goals this season and has just been&nbsp;voted player of the year by DW Sports' readers, said he continued to feel very happy at Dortmund, still a "big club" with "awesome fans."&nbsp;"But I have been asking myself, if I want to take the next step, do I not need to leave? I don't have an answer yet. I need some time," Aubameyang said, adding that at age 27, if he were to stay for another season in Dortmund, then he might stay for his entire career.&nbsp;Thoughts on China, England, France and Real MadridAubameyang has been linked with top clubs including Real Madrid and Manchester City ever since finding his scoring boots at Dortmund, but he said at the start of this season that he wanted to stay in Dortmund and win titles with Thomas Tuchel's side. Popular German daily "Bild" reported earlier in January that he had bought a costly new villa near the club. He has a long-term contract at Dortmund, but that did not stop stars like Mario G tze or Mats Hummels&nbsp;in the past.Asked about rumors of an annual&nbsp;salary of 41 million euros ($45 million) on offer in China, Aubameyang said that he had heard of the story the same way as his interviewers, by reading reports in the newspapers. He said there had been no direct contact, and added:&nbsp;"It's not an objective of mine to go there. Certainly not now. I can rule that out completely for the moment."So what about England?"Many people would like to see me in the English Premier League," he told RMC. "It's not necessarily the championship that attracts me the most, but it could permit me to take the next step."The Gabonese star then said that Spain's La Liga remained the most attractive league in his eyes, albeit also leaving the door open for French football, calling the more competitive season in Ligue 1 "really good to see."A return to France "probably would not be my first option, but it's not unimaginable," Aubameyang said.As for the common Real Madrid rumors, he acknowledged the links made in the past, but said "it's not like there's only Real in life, even if that remains a dream of mine."He has 16 league goals, but BVB have just four wins from their last 10 Bundesliga outingsInterestingly, perhaps, the discussion made no mention of Bayern Munich - the vacuum most likely to&nbsp;suck talent out of Dortmund in recent years.&nbsp;With the interview airing after the transfer window shut in Germany, any move will not take place until the end of the current Bundesliga season. Wherever he sees his future,&nbsp;Aubameyang could do his cause no end of good by remaining the most prolific striker in Germany in the mean time, starting against second-placed RB Leipzig on Saturday.&nbsp;