On January 18, a 120,000-ton mass of snow slammed into the four-star Rigopiano Hotel following a magnititde-5 earthquake. About 30 people, including a number of children, were thought to have been in the spa hotel in the Gran Sasso National Park when it was struck by the avalanche, burying it under five meters (16.4 feet) of snow.Eleven people survived the catastrophe, including four children and two adults who were outside the hotel at the time the avalanche struck the three-storey building.Rescue crews found 10 survivors in the rubble two days after the resort was flattened.Italian prosecutors are considering possible manslaughter charges over the deaths in the hotel amid accusations that the avalanche threat was not taken seriously enough and emergency services were slow to respond. The first rescuers reached the site some 11 hours after the incident.Investigators are also examining how the hotel was allowed to expand, state prosecutor Cristina Tedeschini said.Formerly a mountain hut at an altitude of 1,200 meters in Italy's picturesque Apennine Mountains, the Rigopiano Hotel was turned into a four-star hotel and spa in the early 1970s.Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni said his government was not shying away from responsibility."I don't share this rising desire for scapegoats and avengers, because history is quick to turn the avengers into scapegoats," Gentiloni told the Senate.The government has allocated four billion euros (4.3 billion dollars) to earthquake relief and reconstruction in central Italy, which suffered a series of tremors last year.An avalanche buried the Riopiano hotel (bottom right), the only one in the Gran Sasso National Park, with up to 30 guests and staff members inside. Despite efforts to rescue survivors, emergency services responding to the disaster reported no signs of life in the three-storey building.It took more than two hours for rescue teams to reach the buried hotel. Up to four meters of snow blocked the way, forcing fire fighters and civil protection personnel to figure out different ways through. First responders traveled by helipcopter, while others made the journey overland using cross-country skis. The force of the avalanche moved parts of the hotel about ten meters (33 feet) from where it originally stood. After breaking through the wall of snow and entering the hotel, rescuers warned that there could be "many dead." At least three bodies have been pulled out. Two survivors escaped when they left the building minutes before the avalanche.While emergency services created camps to base their search operations, heavy snow continued to fall. A national fire rescue spokesman told DW that they would continue to move forward with their operations, despite the weather. Other parts of the region experienced up to four meters of snow, knocking down powerlines and leaving thousands of people without heat or light.In other parts of the Abruzzo region and its surrounding areas in Marche and Lazio, authorities worked together to rescue isolated individuals, trapped in their homes due to the snow. In Campotosto, the government deployed the military to assist with the evacuation of certain houses. Rescue efforts were intensified in the wake of four powerful earthquakes that shook the region.In Amatrice and nearby areas, where nearly 300 people were killed in a devastating earthquake in August, heavy snow and earthquakes continued to unsetlle the ruined village. Former residents, housed in temporary shelters nearby, have considered vacating for good due to the harsh winter and tremors that continue to plague the area. Author: Lewis Sanders IV shs/rc &nbsp;(dpa, Reuters, AFP, AP)