Roger Federer's return to fine form continued on Tuesday as he swept past Germany's Mischa&nbsp;Zverev in straight sets (6-1, 7-5, 6-2). The victory sets up a semifinal against fellow Swiss Stan Wawrinka, who beat&nbsp;Jo-Wilfried Tsonga earlier in the day.Federer raced to a devastating first-set&nbsp;victory, demonstrating some of the fine tennis that has seen him return to form. The 35-year-old&nbsp;struggled a little in the second though as Zverev began to find his feet using his serve-and-volley style and even took a 3-1 lead. Federer battled back and even though Zverev held his serve to lead 5-4 in the second, Federer was just too good and won the next three games.With the match approaching the&nbsp;hour mark, Zverev knew he was running out of time to find a way back into contention. The German's surprise victory against Andy Murray in the previous round looked exactly what it was - a thing of the past - as his best efforts fell in vain. In the third, Zverev once again showed flashes of his quality but Federer's play from the baseline proved too consistent. At 2-2, Federer found an extra gear, broke&nbsp;Zverev's serve and after a lengthy deuce in game seven, Federer was home and dry.Federer, a four-time champion down under, also made history by reaching the&nbsp;most Australian Open semifinals (13). It is also Grand Slam semifinal number 41 for the Swiss legend - another tennis record."I'm happy. I played as well as I could in this tournament. I never thought I would be this good. Here I am still standing in a semifinal to play Stan," Federer said on court after his win."If I play Roger it will be tough to have some fans, but hopefully some will cheer for me," Wawrinka said after his&nbsp;7-6, 6-4, 6-3 win against Tsonga, a victory that included a heated argument&nbsp;at the first-set changeover with each accusing the other of staring at each other&nbsp;too long.Federer has won 18 of his&nbsp;21 matches against Wawrinka,&nbsp;including the&nbsp;most recent in London, and their last meeting at&nbsp;the Australian Open back in 2011.jh/pfd (AFP, dpa)