Within the first week of 2017, the Turkish government has fired another 6,000 people&nbsp;-&nbsp;including police officers, justice ministry officials and health ministry employees. This is in addition to another 110,000 individuals who since the coup attempt in July 2016 have been dismissed and more than 40,000 who have been incarcerated, pending trial. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2QZi0The vast majority of them are accused of having links to the G len movement, which the Turkish government has branded a terrorist organization called "FET ."Turkey says that FET is out to topple the government, prepared to step in and run the country once its&nbsp;leader, US-based cleric Fethullah G len, manages to rise to power using whatever means necessary.Is all this an elaborate conspiracy theory or is there evidence to support the Turkish government's crackdown on so-called G lenists under the recently extended state-of-emergency measures?What do we know about G len?Born in 1941, Fethullah G len was a simple imam for the first half of his life. After retiring from preaching in 1981, his focus shifted from religious to social activities, many of which involved launching new enterprises, particularly media ventures and educational projects, areas which at the time were opening up to privatization. His influence grew steadily throughout the 1980s and 1990s - as did his following: Many of those whom G len promoted in his organizations or whose education he funded with his schools feel a personal debt to the preacher.In 1999, G len moved to the US state of Pennsylvania&nbsp;and has been living there in self-imposed exile ever since.Fethullah G len lives on this compound in Saylorburg, Pennsylvania, and is rarely seen in public outside of his prayer circlesWhile his supporters cite health reasons for the septuagenarian's residence in the US, the truth of the matter is that G len felt he had to flee Turkey in 1998 as he was under investigation for undermining the state, which at that point was still firmly under control of Turkey's secular elite and backed up by the military. In 2000, he was found guilty, in absentia, of scheming to overthrow the government by embedding civil servants in various governmental offices - an indictment that&nbsp;would come back to haunt him later.Two years later, however, the face of Turkey began to change. Recep Tayyip Erdogan became prime minister with his recently established Justice and Development Party (AKP)&nbsp;despite only getting one-third of the overall vote. Secularists, in their many millions in Turkey, were unhappy with this, but still welcomed the exponential growth of the Turkish economy thereafter, while the AKP's Islamist ideas became increasingly commonplace in the country. Against that backdrop, Erdogan and G len decided they could embark on a partnership.What is G len's history with Erdogan?After being re-elected in 2007 with even a stronger mandate, the AKP under Erdogan's leadership became more outspoken with its Islamist ideology. Within a year, it would reverse the charges against Fethullah G len, signaling a willingness to cooperate with the cleric and his movement.For G len had built up an impressive business empire in the years since his self-imposed exile. His network of media outlets in Turkey and abroad had become increasingly powerful; his schools were grooming the next generation of pious yet entrepreneurially minded followers in Turkey; and his banks facilitated the movement and transfer of funds between the Western world and the Middle East, where some countries' financial affairs are governed by Islamic principles.His ties also extended to central Asia, where former Soviet republics like Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and other nations with Turkic languages welcomed any kind of aid, while feeling a particularly strong sense of kinship with Turkey.Investigative journalist Ahmet Sik tried to warn the public about G len's influence in 2011 - and was promptly arrested and his publication bannedAll the while, G len already had thousands of devout followers in government positions in Turkey itself - and that network was growing.Journalist Ahmet Sik tried to warn the public of what he saw as Fethullah G len's dangerous&nbsp;influence by penning a book entitled "The Imam's Army" in 2011. The government&nbsp;stopped the publication of the investigative work and imprisoned Sik for almost a year.&nbsp;Sik has been detained several times again since&nbsp;while trying to unearth the full extent of the collaboration between Erdogan and G len.How could G len benefit the AKP?Doing business with G len was not necessarily an optimal&nbsp;choice for Erdogan, but in the face of the preacher's influence in Turkey and beyond, it was becoming an obvious marriage of convenience. G len had the right infrastructures in place for Erdogan's growing ambition. Meanwhile, many of G len's dealings were less than transparent, so a partnership&nbsp;to protect his business interests seemed equally opportune to him.Details of the extent of the collaboration between the two are somewhat imprecise; however, it has been&nbsp;noted that high-ranking Turkish government officials visited the cleric at his compound in Saylorsburg, Pennsylvania, on multiple&nbsp;occasions after G len's official acquittal.G len's publications and television stations were suddenly seen supporting Erdogan's 2011 election bid - despite the fact that his organization had always maintained that it didn't seek any political activities. With G len's support, the AKP managed to win yet again that year, with a result that was just shy of an absolute majority in terms of percentage.Erdogan initially saw G len as an ally in a bid to create a US-style executive presidencyThe secular classes residing in Turkey's main cities could do nothing but stand by helplessly as the nation they knew morphed into a state that clearly favored religion over "laicite" - the French brand of separation of religion and state, which the founder of modern Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atat rk, had enshrined in the constitution. The rest of the world even seemed to welcome this development in the hope of&nbsp;Turkey rising to become a true bridge between Islam and the West - a new "Ottoman Empire," as Erdogan had started to propagate.To realize his vision, Erdogan removed powers from the military, either by parliamentary mandate or by force, jailing many generals who were a thorn in his side. Those that took over&nbsp;the now-vacant military positions typically tended to be more lenient and welcoming toward&nbsp;Islam, with many having reportedly been influenced by G len's teachings.The face of Turkey was changing too fast&nbsp;for&nbsp;anyone to&nbsp;truly keep up, changes facilitated by G len's support of the AKP government. But by 2013, the Erdogan-G len empire would begin to collapse, driving deep divisions through the entire country.What brought about the split?Despite winning the greatest mandate yet in the 2011 elections, Erdogan's AKP suffered several setbacks just over a year into its third consecutive government. Having stamped out corruption in&nbsp;old government structures, the AKP itself was&nbsp;embroiled in a corruption affair all the way to the top, including Erdogan's own family. That scandal, however, had allegedly been masterminded by G len, after Erdogan&nbsp;decided to curb the preacher's boundless influence by closing down his network of university prep schools in Turkey. That,&nbsp;at least, is the government's version of events.The 2013 corruption revelations, one of the biggest scandals in modern Turkish history,&nbsp;inspired the Gezi Park protests, which Erdogan quelled&nbsp;with an iron fist. Not only did he fight protesters with violence, resulting 22 deaths, but he also turned on his erstwhile ally Fethullah G len, accusing him for the second time&nbsp;of&nbsp;trying to infiltrate and overthrow the government. The image of G len as a subversive Islamist was thus cemented - an enemy of the state, whom Erdogan accused of fashioning a "state within a state" or "parallel state."Erdogan meanwhile kept himself from being touched by&nbsp;the corruption scandal by becoming president; once in power, he could pit himself against G len as part of a classic good-versus-evil narrative.Why did things grow quiet around G len?The events in Syria determined much of both domestic and foreign policy issues in Turkey between the elections of 2011 and 2015. The huge influx of millions of refugees in Turkey and the war at its borders shifted attention away from many internal problems. The role of Kurdish fighters against the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria also became a domestic worry, as Turkey was reluctant to have a Kurdish state at its doorstep.By the first round of elections in 2015, Turkey had therefore abandoned&nbsp;peace talks with the Kurdish minority within Turkey. As a result, the Kurdistan Workers' Party's (PKK's) insurgency, which since the mid-1980s had resulted in more than 40,000 deaths, was rekindled. The so-called "Islamic State" also started attacks on Turkey. The country could barely cope with its own day-to-day affairs and was more divided than ever.Nevertheless, Erdogan was to make&nbsp;sure that the government would flex its&nbsp;muscles against G len, whose news outlets had by now turned against the AKP government;&nbsp;several of G len's&nbsp;enterprises in Turkey have been shut down over the years.How does G len factor in with the regards to the failed coup?On July 15, 2016, a group of about 10,000 renegade soldiers launched a coup attempt, claiming to fight the lack of leadership in this state of crisis. It was badly organized and failed within 12 hours. More than 250 people died that night.The government apparently knew immediately that G len's movement was behind the failed putsch. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1JQKnSome of the soldiers captured after the coup attempt have confessed to taking orders from G len, though it is unknown under what conditions those confessions may have taken place, with allegations of torture amassing since the events.The state-run Anadolu news agency quotes Lieutenant Colonel Levent Turkkan, for instance, as saying: "I am a member of the parallel state, or FET . I have served this community for years voluntarily. I have obeyed the orders and instructions of the big brothers exactly."In the ensuing days, Turkey declared&nbsp;a state of emergency, which has since been extended twice to "eradicate" any so-called FET influence in the country. Ankara has also tried&nbsp;to have the cleric extradited from the US.G len has denied any involvement in the coup attempt. His followers claim that he is being made a scapegoat so that&nbsp;President Erdogan can&nbsp;unite extraordinary powers in his position. They claim they are the victims of a government ploy against freedom of speech and religion, while Erdogan maintains that any supporter of G len is a terrorist.The July 15 coup attempt led to a severe government crackdownHow do G len followers like to present themselves?G len's followers think of themselves as reformers, revolutionaries even. In the past they have welcomed benevolent comparisons saying that they are&nbsp;to Islam what Martin Luther and the Reformation movement were to Christianity 500 years ago. They say they seek interreligious dialogue and are devoted to serving others, hence their self-styled name, "Hizmet" - which translates as "service." This is also how they explain their abundant presence&nbsp;in government positions.&nbsp;They also claim that&nbsp;they value education above all else, pointing at their network of international schools and their initiative to spread literacy to all corners of the world. Y. Alp Aslandogan, who runs the G len-affiliated "Alliance for Shared Values" in New York, claims that all the movement wants&nbsp;is to create a better world through humanitarian work:"It emerged as a small movement in the late 60s against the backdrop of a lot of economic dysfunction, poverty, a lot of politically and ideologically driven clashes and a lot of disenfranchisement among the people. Hizmet emerged out of the idea that through education a lot of these problems could be addressed," he told DW in an interview.Estimates on the size of G len's&nbsp;fellowship vary, with conservative figures stating a following of 3 million people globally, while the international news website "Politico" states a support of 10 percent of Turkey's population alone, or roughly 7.5 million people.What else is there to know about Hizmet&nbsp;and G len?There is a much more sinister side to the organization. For one thing, there is a major personality cult focusing on the role of Fethullah G len. The charismatic leader is venerated in some bizarre ways; a report in the "New Yorker" magazine&nbsp;states that G len's followers fight over getting to eat his leftover food&nbsp;and that it is an honor to drink water from his shoe. The same report also quotes a former member of the movement as saying&nbsp;that his followers believe that G len is the Messiah.Early attempts to establish G len's role in the narrative of Turkey's contemporary history included falsified documents to have his birthday coincide with the death of the founder of the Turkish republic, Mustafa Kemal Atat rk - in a symbolic bid to stress his political and spiritual significance.There were anti-coup rallies in Turkey and even abroad Beyond these strange internal practices, G len's political background also seems to be wooly and chimerical. Among other things,&nbsp;G len's network of charter schools in the US has recently been accused of being part of an elaborate money-laundering and immigration fraud scheme, according to international law firm "Amsterdam &amp; Partners," whom the Turkish government has hired to investigate G len. There have also been&nbsp;allegations by a former Turkish intelligence official&nbsp;that some of the G len schools in Central Asia have served in the past as a cover for CIA operatives in Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan.&nbsp;Is G len really after a government takeover?The most damning&nbsp;piece of evidence usually presented against Fethullah G len is a sermon he gave shortly after his arrival in the US in the late 1990s. In it, he directs his followers to burrow into Turkey's state structures and to await the right moment to rise to power as part of an extended bottom-up process:"We invite our friends who hold high positions in the legislative branch of government and state institutions to master the skills of administration, so they could, when the time comes, reform the Turkish state and make it more fruitful at all its levels in the name of Islam. We have to be patient and wait for the right moment and opportunity. ( ) You must wait until such time as you have gotten all the state power, until you have brought to your side all the power of the constitutional institutions in Turkey. Until that time, any step taken would be too early." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1JYkaWith such statements in the public domain, it is perhaps&nbsp;no surprise that G len has been accused of attempting to subvert the government not once or&nbsp;twice, but three times now. Despite the speech being almost two decades old, it continues to cast a long shadow over Fethullah G len, discrediting any attempts by his powerful PR strategists to present the cleric as a genuine humanitarian.Whether he ever really&nbsp;held aspirations to overthrow the government in Turkey in such Machiavellian ways or whether G len's statements were, as he alleges, taken out of context, may be a secret that the ailing preacher will take to the grave; the US is thus far not cooperating with Turkish requests to have G len extradited , citing a lack of evidence.However, the thought of what Turkey might look like now if the coup had&nbsp;succeeded will continue to fuel the imagination of many, regardless of whether G len was indeed the mastermind behind the plot.