The world's oldest known gorilla and the first to be born in a zoo has died at the age of 60, the Columbus Zoo announced on Tuesday.Colo, the matriarch of the Columbus, Ohio,&nbsp;zoo gorilla family, was born in 1956 at a time when much less was known about the western lowland gorilla and conservation.&nbsp;Her surprise birth at the time made headlines around the world and sparked greater interest in the endangered species."She was an ambassador for gorillas and inspired people to learn more about the critically endangered species and motivated them to protect gorillas in their native habitat, said Tom Stalf, the president of the zoo.Colo was born when veterinary student Warren Thomas violated the then-zoo director's orders to keep her parents separate over concern they would harm each other. Instead, over time the two gorillas conceived Colo. Thomas gave mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to revive the lifeless baby after finding it still in its amniotic sac shortly after birth.Colo went on to have three offspring, creating an entire family at the zoo. She was the grandmother of 16, great grandmother of 12, and great-great grandmother of three gorillas. The zoo said her family would be allowed time with the body before it is cremated.Gorilla mum Gana at M nster Zoo couldn't accept her baby Claudio's death. For days, she carried his dead body around and defended it against the zookeepers. This isn't unusual for great ape mothers who lose offspring, researchers say. Some moms won't even let go their baby's dead - and in the meantime, mummified - body for weeks.Orcas, dolphins and other sea mammals also carry around their dead offspring for a while - not an easy task underwater. Researchers observed dolphin moms trying to balance their dead baby's body on their beaks, and diving after it when it finally sank to the ground. When adult dolphins die, their companions guard the dead bodies for days as well.Elephants are famous for their excellent memory - no wonder they mourn especially long and intensively for their dead. A group of elephants congegrate around a dead elephants body in a kind of wake. Even elephants from other groups come to say goodbye to the deceased. Elephants have also been seen visiting the bones of other dead elephants, and touching the skeletons with their trunks.Baboons show strong signs of stress when a close companion dies. The concentration of stress hormones in their blood rises, researchers have shown. To cope with the loss, baboons tend to seek out their friends. They dedicate themselves to grooming, which helps to lower their stress hormones.When a crow dies, other crows summon members of their species, and together they gather around the carcass. They'll also typically stop eating for some time after a death. The effects of grief are especially evident in birds that spend their entire life with one partner - like geese or songbirds. Effects sometimes extend to the remaining partner stopping eating, and eventually dying itself.Fish often remain unusually still after a fellow dies in the same aquarium. Researchers say this behavior is probably due to stress hormones released into the water by the dying fish. Few studies have looked into whether fish actually mourn their dead, but this seems conceivable - at least for fish that live in pairs, like the French angelfish.There are also cases of animals grieving for members of other species. Take, for example, "Muschi" the cat and "M uschen" the Asiatic black bear. The pair became inseparable at Berlin Zoo - and when the bear died, the cat refused to leave her companion's enclosure. She stayed there, meowing mournfully.People grieve deeply when they lose their beloved dog. The same goes for dogs who lose their masters. The German shepherd "Capitan" for many years stood guard at the grave of his master at the Villa Carlos cemetery in Argentina. Author: Brigitte Osterath / nm At the age of 60, Colo ended up living nearly two decades longer than her life expectancy. She had a malignant tumor removed last month, but it is unclear if that contributed to her death. Zoo officials will perform an animal autopsy.All captive gorillas are western lowland gorillas. There are about 350 of them in zoos accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums.There are an estimated 100,000 western lowland gorillas in the wild in central Africa, according to the World Wildlife Fund.&nbsp;Western lowland gorillas are classified as threatened and their populations are in decline due to habitat destruction, disease and hunting.There are an estimated 5,000 eastern lowland gorillas in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), which are&nbsp;vulnerable to extinction.&nbsp;Some 900 mountain gorillas, confined to two small populations in Uganda, DRC and&nbsp;Rwanda, are one of the most endangered species on the planet. There are fewer&nbsp;than 300 cross river gorillas in Cameroon and Nigeria.