People with severe health issues should be able to claim sex with prostitutes as a medical expense, according to the German Green party. Patients would need doctor's approval before filling a sex prescription. (08.01.2017) The upper house of the parliament has passed a new law which no longer requires that a victim physically resists her attacker to prove rape. Bundesrat also passed bills related to human trafficking and climate change. (23.09.2016) A German plan to jail men who use forced prostitutes has revived a debate about European attitudes to prostitution. While some call for a total ban, others believe full legalization is the only route. (06.04.2016) The state social court in Rhineland-Palatinate decided on Friday that Germany's Federal Employment Agency is not required to post jobs that come from the erotic or sex industry sector.The agency runs a large online job portal that advertises job openings all over the country, but ran into legal problems after it removed job postings from a red light establishment in the city of Speyer.The owner of the erotic business took her case to court after she said the agency deleted her account and advertisements for female bartenders and receptionists.The court said in its decision that the agency was generally allowed to not post erotic-related open job positions on its platform based on the site's conditions of use.The agency argued that the removals were carried out in order to protect youths and other users on its website."Even changes in society have not yet led to prostitution being regarded like any other profession," the decision read.The case can still be challenged in Germany's Federal Social Court.Prostitution has been legal in Germany since 2002, but social stigma still plagues sex workers.Last year, Germany's upper house of parliament passed a new law to fight human trafficking and forced prostitution. Under the law, customers who knowingly used the services of forced prostitutescould be punished unless they report the matter to police.rs/jm&nbsp;(dpa, epd)One claimant tried to sneak in a quick alcohol-free beer while at the copy machine. But it starting foaming beyond control, and in the hectic rush to drink it off, he chipped a number of teeth. Is that considered a workplace accident? Not according to Dresden's social court - food and beverage consumption is not insured, and copy-making isn't believed to leave employees especially thirsty.One woman fell down the stairs on her way from her home office to grab some water - and her case made it all the way up to Germany's national social court. It ruled that, while what happens at work on the trip to eat or drink is insured, the way is subject to the procedures of the company. Because home workers decide their own procedure, it was on her.Enjoying ice cream on his way home from a work appointment, one man swallowed a chuck as he entered a subway car. It got lodged in his esophagus, setting off a lightning jolt of pain - that was later determined to have been a heart attack. Berlin's social court ruled though that it didn't count as a work-related accident. Ice cream is consumed for pleasure, not work.Speaking of pleasure. One civil servant's sex got a bit out of hand on a business trip. A lamp was ripped out of the wall and its shards injured her. She demanded compensation, including for the post-traumatic stress syndrome she developed in the event's aftermath. But the court ruled against her claim, saying sex was not expected by the employer.At breaktime during an occupational training course, a 27-year-old's collegues tried to soak him with an animal squirt gun. Fleeing to safety, he jumped out of the window. In hindsight, this may have been a poor decision: he crashed through a plexiglass awning. The social court of the German state of Hesse ruled against his claim, saying the jump was not necessitated by workplace conditions.A bar worker fell asleep at the counter - and then fell off her chair, injuring herself. Was it a workplace accident? The social court ruled no, because overwork wasn't the reason she fell asleep.One claimant was on a business trip in Ibiza and met customers at a beachside club, which he left drunk past midnight. He later wanted to go back in, but instead got into a fight with the bouncer, who struck the man a blow. He ended up with serious head injuries. But, while business travelers are protected by insurance, this doesn't apply when they're drunk at night, the social court ruled.A cow got caught in its chain and was at risk of suffocating. The brother of the cow's owner came to the rescue, but in the process was stepped on by a different cow, who broke his leg. The court ruled that - although the brother wasn't on the job while injured - neither are people who help out after a disaster, granting his claim.