Court-appointed psychiatrist Henning Sass presented his highly&nbsp;anticipated evaluation of alleged far-right gang member Beate Zsch pe to the higher regional court in Munich on Tuesday.Early on in his oral remarks to the court, Sass emphasized that he could not identify any significant mental health problems with Zsch pe.Speaking to judges at Munich's regional court on Wednesday, Sass said that the former member of the neo-Nazi group posed a "high risk" for committing actions similar to group members Uwe Mundlos and Uwe B hnhardt.This diagnosis was valid if her role within the "National Socialist Underground" was described accurately in the indictment and if Zsch pe's statement that she agreed to her comrades' actions only unwillingly was incorrect, he added.The Thuringian neo-Nazi and former intelligence service informer Tino Brandt discusses his past double life as he testifies at the trial centering on the NSU Terror group. What exactly went on back then remains unclear. (24.09.2014) Sass did not specify the extent to which he found Zsch pe's own testimony plausible. However, witnesses' accounts went against the assumption that Zsch pe "bowed to the will of her two companions in such important matters."&nbsp;According to him, the 42-year-old&nbsp;was therefore fully responsible for what had happened. Sass said he could not find any psychological problems that could impact "accountability."He attested that the defendant displays "egocentric" behavioral patterns and that she tends to defer responsibility and trivialize her own behavior. At the same time, however, Zsch pe displays a "healthy self-esteem."Sass said&nbsp;Zsch pe had refused to be interviewed by the psychiatrist, so his findings are based on his observations of her during the trial's 336 proceedings thus far, witness testimonies and Zsch pe's own statements and files. He admitted that direct talks with the defendant would have been preferred.Reviewing this data, Sass said Zsch pe had a talent for "stealth, concealment and deception" after living underground with her co-accused&nbsp;Uwe Mundlos and Uwe B hnhardt for 14 years.A psychiatric assessment&nbsp;was ordered after the 42-year-old defendant&nbsp;showed a continued lack of emotion and remained silent during her three-and-a-half-year trial in the southern German city of Munich.Zsch pe is accused, along with two others, of involvement in ten murders, two bombings and 15 bank robberies carried out by the National-Socialist Underground&nbsp;(NSU), a secret neo-Nazi group that&nbsp;operated between 2000 and 2007.Her co-accused, Mundlos and B hnhardt, died in an apparent murder-suicide in 2011.Sass cited witness statements that said Zsch pe could always "control her boys," referencing Mundlos and B hnhardt.&nbsp;A second part of Sass' assessment will be presented to the court on Wednesday. In a draft of the report sent to the court, Sass already said he believes Zsch pe is criminally liable and responsible for her actions.The court will use Sass' report to help determine&nbsp;Zsch pe's risk of reoffending,&nbsp;as well as her level of guilt in the crimes.For years, neo-Nazis of the right-wing organization National Socialist Underground (NSU) were killing people across Germany. The suspects: Uwe Mundlos, Uwe B hnhardt (center) and Beate Zsch pe. Their victims: eight people of Turkish origin, one Greek man and a German policewoman. Their motive: obvious xenophobia. Until 2011, the German public was not aware of the scope of their crimes.The murder spree was uncovered on November 4, 2011 when Mundlos and B hnhardt robbed a bank in the east German town of Eisenach. For the first time, they failed. Police officers surrounded the caravan in which the two men were holed up. A later investigation concluded that Mundlos first shot and killed B hnhardt, then set the caravan on fire and killed himself.Shortly after the death of B hnhardt and Mundlos there was an explosion at Fr hlingsstra e 26 in Zwickau, in the state of Saxony. Beate Zsch pe lived at that address together with the two bank robbers. Zsch pe allegedly set the house on fire to destroy evidence. Four days later, she turned herself in to the police. The terror suspect has been in pre-trial custody since that day.In the ruins of the Zwickau flat, police officers found a self-made video in which the terror cell claimed responsibility under the name of the NSU, the National-Socialist Underground. The 15-minute video shows crime scenes and pictures of the victims killed by the right-wing terrorist group between 2000 and 2007.Famous cartoon character The Pink Panther hosts the amateur video, which is full of slogans of hatred against people with an immigrant background and which mocks the murder victims. Before her arrest, Zsch pe allegedly sent out copies of the video in which the NSU claimed responsibility for the crimes.Until 2011, the term "d ner murders" was frequently used when reporting about the killings. Nothing was known about the connection between the individual cases, nor about the motive. There were rumors the victims were linked to the drug scene. But the NSU's video left no doubt. The term "d ner murders" was chosen as Germany's "Unwort des Jahres" (doublespeak of the year) in 2011."The findings made by our security authorities so far show no indication of a terrorist background, but of a criminal milieu," said German Interior Minister Otto Schily on June 10, 2004. A day earlier, a pipe bomb explosion in Cologne left 22 people injured and many shops damaged. In 2011, it became clear: the NSU s right-wing terrorists were also behind the Cologne bombing.On February 23, 2012, Germany commemorated the victims. At the ceremony at a Berlin concert hall, the focus was on the relatives of the victims. Semiya Simsek (right), the daughter of the murdered flower stand owner Enver Simsek, gave an emotional speech. German Chancellor Angela Merkel made an official apology to the victims and promised them that all questions would be answered.On November 4, 2012, exactly a year after the terror cell was uncovered, people in many German cities staged solidarity demonstrations against right-wing extremism. The protesters called for thorough investigations into the racially motivated murders - which in their view was not happening fast enough."Dortmund is a colorful, tolerant and welcoming town and opposes right-wing extremism!" This statement was made by mayor Ullrich Sierau at the unveiling of the memorial stone for NSU victim Mehmet Kubasik in September 2012. The memorial was set up just meters away from the kiosk in which Kubasik was killed on April 4, 2006. Author: Anna Peters / nh Zsch pe trial in final stageThe 42-year-old Zsch pe has admitted to an arson charge, but has ardently denied committing the murders. Prosecutors believe that she aided in bank robberies and bomb attacks&nbsp;and that she helped cover the fellow suspects' tracks after the killings were committed.&nbsp;Commentators said&nbsp;Sass' report is likely to strongly influence the sentence handed down to Zsch pe. It was delayed several times because of applications from the defense.Zsch pe faces life in prison if convicted.Four other junior members of the NSU are on trial with Zsch pe.After staying silent during most of her three-year trial, Zsch pe told the court last September that having been drawn in to nationalist ideology as a young woman in eastern Germany after reunification,&nbsp;she had turned away from far-right ideology. But the short statement made no reference to her alleged crimes.Investigators say the NSU was behind the murder of eight Turkish-Germans, a Greek migrant&nbsp;and a German policewoman. The group is also believed to have carried out a series of nail-bomb attacks in immigrant neighborhoods.&nbsp;rs, mm/gsw&nbsp;(AFP, dpa)