In populous North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW), the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) party bickered and fought over leadership issues at its state convention on Sunday just months ahead of a key state election regarded as a litmus test for national polls in September.DW takes a look at the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party - the newest force in German politics. What is it, where did it come from and what role will it play in the 2017 election? Here are all the answers. (20.01.2017) It's been a long time since there's been this much political uncertainty in Germany. The general election is still a year away, but the refugee crisis has had a major impact on politics. Here's where the parties stand. (13.09.2016) Bj rn H cke has been told to stay away from his state parliament s remembrance ceremony for victims of the Nazi regime after a speech last week in which he called the Holocaust memorial in Berlin a "monument of shame." (27.01.2017) Domestic power struggles or no - the AfD, which currently has about 4,500 members in NRW, is aiming to enter the state parliament there in the May 14 vote. The party already has seats in 10 of Germany's 16 state parliaments - and also has set its sights on entering the national&nbsp;parliament, the&nbsp;Bundestag.The AfD will in fact win enough votes to enter both assemblies, says Professor Carsten Koschmieder of the Berlin-based Otto Suhr Institute of Political Science. The AfD is also expected to win a sizable share of the vote in state polls in Saarland in March and Schleswig-Holstein in May.The populist party might then go on to become the third largest force in the national parliament later his year.Voters don't careThe AfD voters don't care about the power struggles and infighting, Koschmieder&nbsp;told DW. "They don't vote for the party because of its program or for its political qualities, but because they are dissatisfied with the current situation," - in particular Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policies.&nbsp;Even if the AfD&nbsp;is already widely tipped to win seats at&nbsp;the national level - polls currently give it&nbsp;15 percent at least - the outcome of the NRW vote matters greatly to the party, Koschmieder says, because the better it does in the state vote, the more media attention it&nbsp;gets ahead of the national vote.&nbsp;The AfD was formed in 2013 by economics professor Bernd Lucke as a Euroskeptic fringe party, denouncing expensive eurozone bailouts and urging a return to the Deutschmark, Germany's currency until early 2002.From anti-euro to anti-immigrantLast year, Lucke was forced out, losing the leadership to Frauke Petry as the party's focus shifted and the AfD morphed into an anti-immigration party attacking Chancellor Merkel's liberal refugee policy, Islam, multiculturalism and planned free-trade agreements with the United States and Canada.Power struggles have been frequent all along, but that in itself is not unusual in a young party, Koschmieder points out. But it has been particularly fierce&nbsp;in the case of the AfD, he says, adding that the party has two wings but doesn't tolerate any other camps. There is no room for dissent, he says, arguing&nbsp;that it's all about individual power, not about substance.Bj rn H cke and Petry have struggled over how far to the right the AfD should be positionedCurrently vying for influence at the head of the party: leader Frauke Petry, a 41-year-old businesswoman and mother of four along with her co-chairman J rg Meuthen, Bj rn H cke - the AfD leader in the eastern state of Thuringia&nbsp;- and deputy chief Alexander Gauland."There's not much willingness to compromise, so infighting is bound to continue," Koschmieder says. "We see rifts in six of the 10 AfD state parliamentary groups."&nbsp;Disagreements that made the news have&nbsp;included members trying to ally the AfD - which is nationalistic but doesn't want to be called an extremist or "Nazi" party - with explicitly far-right parties in Europe.&nbsp;Meuthen fell out with his federal co-leader Petry, the party's best-known national face, over anti-Semitic allegations by an AfD lawmaker - and went on to create a new parliamentary group in the state of Baden-W rttemberg. H cke triggered anger across Germany when he criticized Berlin's Holocaust Memorial as a "monument of shame." Even members of his own party said he "went too far." The AfD executive, however, decided not to expel H cke, one of their more right-leaning leaders, but to impose unspecified "disciplinary measures" instead.Although Chancellor Merkel is considered very likely to retain power in the September election, she&nbsp;has at the same identified the populist rightwing party as "a challenge for us all."