DYNAMOS has told coach Lloyd Mutasa to win the first five competitive matches of the upcoming season or face the boot as the Harare giants seek to reclaim the glory. BY henry mharaThe former Dynamos midfielder took over from fired Paulo Jorge Silva last season on an interim base is until the end of the season.But despite an indifferent season where Dynamos finished fifth, 17 points behind champions Caps United, the Dynamos hierarchy decided to give Mutasa another chance.However, he has just five games to justify the faith that has been entrusted into him.Speaking after the club s Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Harare yesterday DeMbare president Keni Mubaiwa said they have given Mutasa a target to win five matches including preseason friendlies, failure at which he would be sacked. When we start the season, there are so many games that come. Be it the Bob Cup or the Independence Cup, whatever matches, all those games will be counted and matters. He must make sure that he gives better results, mostly qualifying for the finals or winning the finals (of the competition). That is what we are expecting from him, nothing less than that, Mubaiwa said.We couldn t win the league title in 2015 and 2016 and we don t want to repeat the same. We want results to come and we are serious about it. The supporters should be patient with Lloyd and give him a chance. We have set targets for him and if things don t go as planned, obviously we are going to make a change but for now they should support him. Mutasa has been tasked to look for assistants, with the future of Murape Murape and goalkeeper s coach Gift Muzadzi thrown into doubt. Muzadzi has been linked with a move away to Ngezi Platinum.Mubaiwa, however, said Murape and Muzadzi would be retained in the new set-up. We will bring two assistants to help him. He is going to choose for himself, we are not going to interfere. Murape and Muzadzi will remain, but we are bringing in more to beef up. We have already told him to look for those assistants. He is giving us the feedback on Tuesday (tomorrow) when we meet. We are not necessarily looking for former Dynamos players this time around. Any coach is eligible. As long as they are good. The Dynamos president said they have already started the process of rebuilding the squad after the departure of three of their players in Godknows Murwirwa, Dominic Mukandi and Brett Amidu who joined Ngezi Platinum and FC Platinum respectively.Dynamos AGM went ahead despite spirited efforts by a faction of former players led by Ernest Kamba to annul it. Their High Court urgent application was thrown out on Saturday.Board secretary Mthokozisi Nkosi said the meeting went on well and the club is hoping for an improved season this year. It was a normal AGM just like any other company would do where shareholders want to understand how things have been. It was more or less of a review of what transpired the previous year, the successes and the challenges we faced. Everything went well smoothly, no hustles, he said. Our stakeholders should brace for exciting times in 2017. As shareholders they are not very comfortable that we didn t win anything last year. The president (Mubaiwa) did explain the challenges that we faced, and all of us at the end of the day were happy with the explanation that came up. We now look forward to the 2017 season.Nkosi said they are not shutting Kamba and his crew out. They should come and give us ideas. The courts were very clear, stay out of what is prevailing. If they strongly feel they have a part to play as former players, they should come up with an association and they come in as that then we will see what we can do for them. 