It is a great pleasure that in 2017 we still have the space and time to share with you some great heavenly wisdom, understanding and knowledge on marriage and family. Relationships: Kilton MoyoThe family is blessed with the capacity to be fruitful and be in prosperityOur prayer for you all, particularly those of the household of faith, is that God fills you with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding that you may walk worthy of the Lord and be fruitful in all the good work you will be doing this year. On our part, as Fruitful Marriages, we will continue by grace to minister and challenge you so that you can excel in your relationships.We want to encourage each other on the family. It is important for us all to at least have a working knowledge on what the family is all about, from the point of view of God who created it. Do you realise that these days, we are made or forced to understand all things from a humanistic point of view, which seeks to eliminate God in all we do? The family is a God thing and serves a God purpose. When God chose to create man in His own image, He created a marriage a family. This community called family is a reflection of the community in the Godhead. It derives its identity, power, life and purpose from God. If the earthly family is a reflection of the heavenly family, this means that what makes the Godhead family must make the earthly family, your family. Think of unity of purpose, love, order, submission, dominion and all that which makes the Godhead family. You will discover that we are falling far too behind and that is one reason why we have come up with our own family theories trying to recreate what God finished. I call this family capture by humanism. If you want to enjoy family, consider it from the view point of the one who made it. It will satisfy you.In Genesis 1:28, we see God after creating marriage or the family, giving them a mandate. This is the family mandate. This is the family assignment. Every family on earth has been created for this purpose or mandate. The family is never a family if it is not pursuing this mandate. When you look around, you will discover that we have pursued a lie and made the family a place of evil, violence, murder, poverty and hatred instead of what it should be. Be fruitful and multiply; fill the earth and subdue it; have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. Notice that this mandate or assignment is given as a blessing (an empowerment) to both the husband and wife. It is not given to the husband only as you have been taught. It is given to the family. The Bible says: Then God blessed them and God said to them. My encouragement to you is to go back to this original mandate of the family and start building from there. If you want to build a family that will last the race of time and the storms unleashed against the family, build from and upon the real foundation.I will explain the mandate to you as you build, but today I need you to understand this first point of the mandate. FruitfulnessYour family is a place of fruitfulness. I call it a wealthy place. The family was never created to be this poor and to struggle the way it does. It was intended to be a place of fruitfulness. It is in the deoxyribonucleic acid of the family system to be fruitful. This fruitfulness is not procreation as many would believe. This is about being productive and in a position of abundance. The family was commissioned by God to be in abundance of all that is good and needed in the family. The family is a wealthy place. In other words, the family is about wealth creation. It is a shame that we have fallen into the religious lie and lived believing in poor families. CapacityThe family is blessed with the capacity to be fruitful and be in abundance or prosperity. Wealth, according to the plan of God, flows from families to communities and nations. Rich nations are made up of wealthy families. It is not this that we see where the family is begging. It was never meant to be like this. God blessed the family. He empowered the family and gave it the power and ability to be fruitful. It is the nature of the family to be wealthy. Alleviating povertyTo achieve this in our communities, we need to get back to the original plan. We need to begin to understand this and help families to create wealth and be fruitful. Once done, we will begin to see sustainable wealth creation in our communities. It can start with your family. Do you fully understand what God intends for you? If you do, then get started this year. I know how hard this is for many of us who are used to these brilliant theories by our scholars and experts. But hear me well, unless we get back to the plan of God, we will always struggle with all these theories filling our shelves achieving nothing. The United Nations (UN) will continue to sit and come up with Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that never bring any change. It s a waste of time. Build the family and you will see the results. We do not need permission from the UN or African Union, we just need to decide as families in a society to say we want best and best is with the plan of God for humanity.You can turn your family around. It is all up to youKilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment programme and is pastor, counsellor and author of The Sex Trap. Call or WhatsApp on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or citizenafricafoundation@gmail.com