After years of avoiding scandal, Francois Fillon is now facing allegations he paid his wife for a post she did not actually hold. The conservative presidential candidate has dismissed the report as simple mudslinging. (25.01.2017) France's Socialists have shifted to the left and the conservatives to the right. Who will succeed President Francois Hollande? DW introduces the candidates who are still in the French presidential race. France's Socialist presidential candidates on Wednesday discussed their policy priorities in a final debate before a run-off vote to choose who will represent the left-of-center party in the elections.Former Education Minister Benoit Hamon appeared to be more convincing in the televised debate, according to an Elabe poll conducted for French broadcaster BFM TV.Some 60 percent of those polled found Hamon more convincing than his rival former Prime Minister Manuel Valls with 37 percent.Valls, who came in second in the first round of the primaries, has attempted to position himself as the safe candidate juxtaposed to Hamon's leftist politics."There is a difference between dreams and illusions, and a (political) program's credibility. That's what interests me, and that's what the French are going to make their decisions over," Valls said during the debate.Known for his pro-business stance and labor reform legislation, Valls has attempted to shake off President Francois Hollande's dismal approval ratings after serving in his cabinet.'The old regime'Meanwhile, Hamon urged voters to "turn its back on the old regime, at these solutions that didn't work yesterday and won't work in the future."The leftist politician vowed to implement a basic monthly welfare payment of 750 euros ($805) for all French citizens, along with taxing robots, legalizing marijuana use and combating discrimination in the workplace.Since the first round of the Socialist primaries, Hamon has gained the endorsement from third-placed Arnaud Montebourg after pulling 36 percent of the vote.France's left voters are slated to pick between Hamon and Valls on Sunday in the second and definitive round of voting for the Socialist presidential candidate.Macron quit as economy minister in August and launched his independent presidential bid in November. The 39-year-old centrist formed his own political movement, En Marche (Forward), and is seen as a reformer. He's never held elected office, but a December poll named him France's most popular politician. He's voiced admiration for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.The National Front leader has adopted a more moderate tone than her anti-Semitic father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. But she still takes a hard line on immigration, saying children of irregular migrants should not have access to public education. She also wants France to withdraw from the eurozone and have a referendum on EU membership. It's predicted she'll advance to the second round. A surprise winner of the right-wing Republicans primaries, the socially conservative Fillon is seen to represent the interests of France's Catholic middle class. An admirer of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he supports a liberal economic policy. Until Penelopegate struck, he was widely projected as the winner of a run-off against Le Pen. In a runoff against former French PM Manuel Valls in the Socialist primary, Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. The 49-year-old supports a universal basic income and wants to reduce the traditional work week to 35 hours. He has also spoken in support of legalizing cannabis and increased investment in renewable energy. Author: Samantha Early ls/rc (Reuters, AFP)