The mechanism will also seek to "prevent any provocations and&nbsp;determine all modalities of the ceasefire," according to a joint&nbsp;statement from the three countries at the end of talks on Tuesday.&nbsp;Russia and Iran, which have given military backing to the Syrian&nbsp;government, and Turkey - which supports many&nbsp;rebel elements&nbsp;- pledged to "fight jointly" against the terror groups "Islamic State" (IS) and the al Qaeda-linked Fatah al-Sham Front.&nbsp;Hope for UN talksThe three countries also said the UN-backed peace process under which&nbsp;government and opposition representatives are due to meet in Geneva&nbsp;next month is in urgent need of a "jumpstart."International reactions to the talks' conclusion - especially to the prospect of revived&nbsp;UN negotiations&nbsp;-&nbsp;have been largely positive. In a joint press conference, the foreign ministers of France and Saudi Arabia, both backers of Syrian rebels,&nbsp;welcomed the possibility of reopening UN-led peace efforts and&nbsp;increasing&nbsp;civilian&nbsp;aid.&nbsp;The UN Syrian Envoy Mistura will host political peace talks in Geneva next monthThe UN Special Envoy for Syria Staffan de Mistura also expressed optimism&nbsp;for the February&nbsp;talks in Geneva."We (the UN) are the main player in regards to the political&nbsp;process," he said. "The political process should&nbsp;continue in Geneva... We cannot allow another ceasefire to be,&nbsp;in a way, wasted, because of a lack of a political process."The talks&nbsp;in Kazakhstan's capital, which began Monday, were aimed at shoring up a ceasefire between the government and some opposition groups brokered by Russia, Turkey and Iran that has been in place since December and has&nbsp;managed to restrain the intensity of hostilities in Syria.Rebels react&nbsp;cautiouslyThough the&nbsp;Syrian rebel groups present&nbsp;at the talks also separately confirmed&nbsp;their support for the mechanism, they&nbsp;criticized Syrian government military offensives, arguing the fighting violates the ceasefire. However, the government's chief negotiator&nbsp;Bashar Ja'afari said the offensive would continue.The Barada valley near Damascus&nbsp;is&nbsp;particularly contested by rebel&nbsp;and government forces&nbsp;due to its function&nbsp;as the capital city's water source. A rebel delegate warned Russia that the ceasefire would be "destroyed" if government forces retook the valley.The ceasefire&nbsp;does not include terrorist groups such as Fatah al-Sham or IS, which is engaged in a massive offensive against government forces in the Deir Ezzor&nbsp;province.Rebels leaders want Syrian government forces to cease their offensivesPraise for Russia, not for IranThe Syrian rebel forces present at the talks&nbsp;commended Russia for its leadership role and criticized&nbsp;perceived&nbsp;Iranian interference.&nbsp;"The Russians have moved from a stage of being a party in&nbsp;the fighting and are now exerting efforts to become a guarantor.&nbsp;They are finding a lot of obstacles from (Shi'ite)&nbsp;Hezbollah forces, Iran and the regime," Mohammed Alloush, head of the rebel delegation, said. He added that rebels would not tolerate Iranian influence&nbsp;in Syria's future demographic makeup, particularly in&nbsp;certain Sunni areas. Alloush referred to Iran's actions as a "bloodletting."According to AFP, Russia also gave Syrian rebels a draft for a new constitution drawn up by Moscow in an attempt&nbsp;to accelerate political negotiations in the war-torn country. However, Syria rebels reportedly refused to discuss&nbsp;the document.A Free Syrian Army member attacks IS positions in Aleppo, Syria on January 14Joining forces or&nbsp;crossing wires?Meanwhile, the&nbsp;Russian&nbsp;army has said it&nbsp;carried out joint attacks with US forces on IS targets in Syria.The commander of the Russian air force contingent in Syria had "received from the American side ... the coordinates of IS targets in al-Bab, in the province of Aleppo,"&nbsp;Russia's defense ministry said in a statement."Two Russian air force planes and two planes of the (US-led) international coalition carried out air strikes against terrorist sites,"&nbsp;destroying arms and fuel dumps in the "joint operation,"&nbsp;the ministry said.The US defense department&nbsp;denied the claim, but President Donald Trump's spokesman Sean Spicer told reporters in Washington that the new US president is open to conducting joint operations with Russia to combat IS in Syria."If there's a way we can combat IS&nbsp;with any country, whether it's Russia or anyone else, and we have a shared national interest in that, sure, we'll take it,"&nbsp;Spicer told reporters.President Trump has been open about his intention to improve relations with Russia and has said his aim is to destroy IS.A stream of men carrying cardboard boxes filled with pigeons heads to three tea-houses. Here, they sell the birds to a dedicated band of pigeon keepers and breeders at Sanliurfa's famed auctions. It's a pastime that has been thriving for hundreds of years across the region, as well as across the nearby border in war-torn Syria.Sanliurfa is situated just 50km (30 miles) from Syria, in the southeastern region that has been rocked by clashes between government troops and Kurdish insurgents. But despite this, trade in the region has carried on.On closer inspection, you can see that the birds are adorned with little jewelled piercings. This specimen is known as "Siyah Kinifirli" and is worth 1000 Turkish Lira (243 ). Auctioneer Dildas proudly reports: "I once sold a pair of pigeons for 35,000 Lira (8,500 ). This is a passion you cannot stop. I've been known to sell the fridge and my wife's gold bracelets to pay for pigeons."When they are not trading, most of the city's pigeon enthusiasts head to the rooftops at sunset and let their birds stretch their wings. Hundreds fill the sky before following their training and heading home. "The birds are my friends. They give me peace," says 55-year-old aficionado Resit Guzel.Vitamins and antibiotics for pigeons are also sold at auction. Guzel gives his 70 birds quality feed and regular vitamins. "Upkeep costs 5 Lira (1,20 ) a day, which is not much. Even if it cost me more, I wouldn't mind," he says.In the early days of the conflict in neighboring Syria, there was an oversupply of birds on the market. Enthusiasts from northern Syria fled to Turkey bringing their pigeons with them. "Prices fell, but as the conflict escalated and there were no more pigeons coming from Syria, prices rose again," says 23-year-old breeder Ismail Ozbek. Author: Nadine Berghausen cmb, jbh/msh&nbsp;(Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa)