Auschwitz Museum Director Piotr Cywinski believes that a number of interesting letters, photos and diaries from the days of National Socialism are still to be found in the attics of houses across Germany and Austria."8,000 Nazis worked at the Auschwitz concentration camp, and the number of people they wrote letters to must be far greater," Cywinski tells DW. "In those days, decades before the internet, people wrote letters and sent photos." The director assumes that some of those letters and photos have survived, and are still in the possession of the families of those who received them. And the museum would very much like to have them.A unique requestJust ahead of the 72nd anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi's largest death camp, the director of the Auschwitz Museum is asking Germans and Austrians to make such documents available to researchers.The Auschwitz Museum displays suitcases from prisoners"The history of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau is not yet fully understood," reads the appeal on the museum's website. "Without a more comprehensive analysis and understanding of the motivation and mentality of the perpetrators, our efforts to wisely counsel future generations will only remain intuitive." Cywinski guarantees donors that their identities will remain anonymous.Following the war, very few documents from SS members were discovered: Among them, a small number of photographs, private letters and diaries. The museum, founded in 1947, mainly possesses official administrative documents, among them, personnel cards handed out to SS members working at Auschwitz.New perspectives help us understandCywinski, 45, has been the museum's director for 10 years. He thinks it is important to learn more about the camp from the perspective of the perpetrators. He says that will allow us to better understand "the influence of populism and mechanisms of hate on individuals." And he is convinced that documents and objects stemming from perpetrators could be of great help in that regard. Time plays an important role. Visitors should be made cognizant of the fact that more time must be invested in explaining the dangers of populism and radicalism to younger generations.Until now, the story of the Holocaust, and thus also that of the Auschwitz concentration camp, has largely been told from the victims' perspective. Cywinski and his team think it is important to add a new dimension to the existing narrative. Yet, Cywinski wants to be clear: This is not about retelling the story or looking at the crimes committed during the Holocaust from a new angle. It is simply hoped that the new documents will provide the opportunity to look more closely at the everyday reality of those responsible for the atrocities.&nbsp;Who wrote letters? Who kept a diary?"For me, it is important that we analyze the effects of Nazi propaganda and its psychological mechanisms to gain a deeper understanding of how it worked," says the director. He says he wants to know, "What were perpetrators' relationships towards each other like? How did the crimes, which became their daily bread, influence family life?" Very interesting questions, not just for historians. Cywinski believes that, "If it is possible to closely examine such documents, we will be able to complete the story of Auschwitz."'Time' as the motto for a day of remembranceFor the 72nd anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, where 1.1 million people were murdered, the museum will present an exhibition entitled "Archaeology." For the first time, personal possessions, discovered during archeological excavations conducted near the Birkenau crematorium 50 years ago, will be presented. These were the things that victims kept with them until the moment they were forced into the gas chambers to die.The museum's team of historians hope that the moving exhibition will underscore its public appeal to Germans and Austrians by showing the strength that authentic mementoes can have. At some point, such objects bear witness to the history of their time. The number of living survivors is rapidly decreasing each year. Only about 100 survivors are expected to attend this year's commemoration.The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. 15 members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum.The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed.Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum.The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published.The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center.From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi-euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims.Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims.Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008.Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears."In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes were placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, providing details on the person as well as the dates of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial.Right next to the "F hrerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany were based in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation of the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon