The UK heads into an uncertain 2017, with the shadow of Brexit looming over the nation. With so many unknowns is Britain hoping for the best or resigned to the worst? Cristina Burack reports from London. (02.01.2017) The United Kingdom has picked career diplomat Tim Barrow to replace its ambassador to the EU. The unexpected resignation of former envoy Ivan Rogers came just weeks before the UK's Brexit negotiations are due to start. (05.01.2017) Farage will be attending as a guest of the governor of Mississippi, where Farage once campaigned for Trump. He called Trump's election a "political revolution" and lamented that Britain's transformation is incomplete. (05.01.2017) In an interview with Sky News on Sunday, UK Prime Minister Theresa May said that on leaving the European Union she intended on striking "the right deal internationally" as well as a "fair deal at home."&nbsp;Sidestepping&nbsp;questions&nbsp;on whether she would prioritize curbing immigration from the&nbsp;EU over Britain's preferential access to the EU's&nbsp;single market, May said&nbsp;it was not a "binary choice."June's&nbsp;referendum was a "vote for us to change that freedom of movement," May added. "We will be able to have control of our borders, control of our laws."Single market mysteryStill unable to confirm whether Britain will be leaving the European single market, May said, "We want the best possible deal for UK businesses in the EU&nbsp;and for European companies trading in the UK."Leaders of the remaining 27 EU states, and most recently German Chancellor Angela Merkel,&nbsp;have repeatedly warned the UK that they would "not be able to cherry pick." May denied claims, however, that Westminster&nbsp;wants to "keep bits"&nbsp;of the UK's EU membership."We are leaving. We are coming out. We are not going to be a member of the EU any longer," she said. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2TsGa'Muddled thinking'In light of Ivan Rogers resignation as the UK's ambassador to the EU&nbsp;earlier this week, May denied the former minister's&nbsp;claims of&nbsp;"ill-founded arguments and muddled thinking" in Brexit talks."Our thinking on this isn't muddled at all," the prime minister insisted, admitting that when 52 percent of the UK voted on June 23 to leave the EU, "there hadn't been any plans made for Brexit."May has vowed&nbsp;to trigger&nbsp;Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which will formally begin Brexit negotiations with the EU,&nbsp;by the end of March."Special relationship" to USMay's first broadcast interview of the year came just hours after US President-elect Donald Trump tweeted that he looked forward to meeting&nbsp;May in Washington in the spring."Britain, a longtime US&nbsp;ally, is very special!" Trump wrote.Confronted in Sunday's interview with Trump 's 2005 quote about women&nbsp;in which he said to "grab them by the pussy"&nbsp;May said that such attitudes towards women were "completely unacceptable," adding, however, the Trump has also since apologized.But with the UK's&nbsp;departure from the EU on the horizon, a close relationship with the US could prove to be more vital than ever."The relationship between the US and the UK is much more than the relationship between the president and the prime minister," May said, adding that she hoped to build on the already existing bond.Great Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May has a thing for leopard print, which was first noted when she wore leopard print heels to a Tory party conference in 2002. "The Sun" tabloid recently published a photo of May's characteristic shoes standing on the heads of male Tory politicians. The headline: "Heel Boys." Politically speaking May is known for taking no nonsense in pushing through reforms.Theresa May has frequently been compared to German Chancellor Angela Merkel: Both were raised by Protestant clergy fathers, both are childless and are known for their persistence. Merkel, whose endless collection of boxy, often drab pantsuits have earned her a reputation as a fashion dud, simply doesn't comment on clothes. But May is open about her hobby. The two leaders meet in Berlin on July 20."Theresa May has a subscription to 'Vogue' and the keys to number 10 Downing Street and, unlike any of the post's previous incumbents, she does not see a conflict in that fact," wrote "The Guardian's" Imogen Fox, calling May a "leader who unashamedly enjoys fashion." May is pictured entering 10 Downing Street as the new prime minister on July 13, just after a meeting with Queen Elizabeth."Kitten heels are to Mrs May what a large bottom is to Kim Kardashian, both embrace their appearance to push their agenda - albeit the former in a more dignified way than the latter," wrote "The Telegraph" earlier this month. But what would Kim say about these bold kiss mouth ballerinas? While the internet has been awash with fashion advice for May, others insist her politics should be the focus.Theresa May was welcomed by Queen Elizabeth, who appointed her as prime minister on July 13. The Queen is known for her penchant for uni-tone outfits in bold solid colors. Perhaps May's much talked about florescent yellow skirt was a nod to the royal mum's own style.Clothes can carry messages. When Theresa May, on her second full day in office, met Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon in Edinburgh, she boldly donned the colors of the Union Jack - complete with stylishly pointed red heels. May had weakly opposed Brexit, but switched camps in the run-up to becoming prime minister. Sturgeon's solid blue suit paired with a white top echoed the Scottish flag.Pictured in June 2015 in London, Theresa May sports bejeweled royal blue flats with tassles. The BBC listed her shoe fetish in its "Seven notable things about the UK's next prime minister." Beyond her closet, May is known for pushing through police reforms and well as increased surveillance policies in a bid to curb terrorism fears. She's said to be a tough, but polite negotiator.May is pictured here at the 2016 Henley Royal Regatta, an annual rowing event on the Thames. She is often seen with elegant hats - which, admittedly, seems typically British. Her attention to details - from head to foot - accentuate her femininity, while other female politicians like Hillary Clinton seem focused on neutrality. Will May's passion for fashion inspire other women in politics? Author: Kate M ser