Following the transition of power in Washington, Russian observers have identified new opportunities for Russian-American cooperation on Afghanistan. Initially, Russia gave&nbsp;the impression that it had a positive view of the US and NATO mission in Afghanistan. In the first few years, Washington and Moscow actively worked together. But the deterioration of bilateral relations towards the end of the 2000s led to Russia and the West drifting apart on the issue. For example, Washington criticized alleged secret negotiations that Russian diplomats held with representatives of the radical Islamic Taliban in Afghanistan. The Russian Foreign Ministry claims that no such negotiations have ever taken place.By the end of 2015, the aim of Russia's Afghanistan policy was already to initiate dialogue with the Taliban, said the Central Asia expert Arkady Dubnov in an interview with Deutsche Welle. He pointed out&nbsp;that at the time, the Russian special envoy for Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, spoke of shared interests with the Taliban.Dubnov says that in recent years, the Kremlin has re-evaluated threats emanating from Afghanistan. Formerly, Russian leaders feared that Afghanistan's instability could spread to neighboring states in Central Asia and thus pose a threat to Russia. "These days, Moscow realizes that as a political force in Afghanistan, the Taliban - even if it is of a radical nature - does not pose a threat to Central Asia, which Russia sees as its sphere of influence," explains Dubnov.In 2016, the Afghan army received four Russian Mi-25 helicoptersMoscow's interests in AfghanistanAn increased Russian involvement in Afghanistan has surprised many observers. What does Moscow want to achieve in the war-torn country? After Syria, is another US-Russia conflict being played out in a different arena? (03.01.2017) Experts expect a tougher stance from US president-elect Trump on Islamic militancy in Afghanistan and Pakistan than Obama. Trump's focus is more on Islamabad than Kabul, but can he afford to disturb the regional balance? (09.11.2016) The US will send 300 Marines to train Afghan forces in the embattled Helmand province, adding to nearly 10,000 US troops still in the country. The Taliban claimed most of the opium-making region after NATO withdrawal. (07.01.2017) In a DW interview, analyst Wahid Muzhdah says the Afghan Taliban are trying to gauge US President-elect Donald Trump's approach towards Afghanistan by releasing a hostage video just days before his inauguration. (12.01.2017) Despite his relentless efforts to curb the Afghan insurgency, Obama never actually got a grip on the situation. Experts say he's leaving behind a huge mess in Afghanistan that won't be easy for his successor to clean up. (19.01.2017) Alexey Malashenko, research director at the Dialogue of Civilizations Research Institute and expert at the Carnegie Moscow Center, agrees with Dubnov. "There is no need to fear that any instability in Afghanistan could spill over into Russia. This danger simply does not exist," said Malashenko to DW.He believes that Russia's activities with regard to Afghanistan should not be overestimated. Moscow is well aware of the fact that Afghanistan is one of the most problematic countries in the region, he says. According to Malashenko, the Kremlin has no objection to involvement in mediation and peacekeeping, as long as it does not cost anything. "Russia has no significant interests in Afghanistan," says the expert. He adds that it is impossible for a relatively poor country like Russia to have its finger in every pie: "Moscow already bears the costs of the Eurasian Economic Union, Crimea, the Donbass region, Abkhazia and Syria." Furthermore, he says, the trade volume with Afghanistan is worth only a billion US dollars: "There are barely any Russian investments there."Afghan government under pressureDespite all this, Moscow wants to fill the vacuum after NATO troops leave Afghanistan, believes Arkady Dubnov. However, in his opinion, that is not the only reason why Moscow has a heightened interest in Afghanistan. The expert feels that the Kremlin is trying to pit the different extremist groups in Afghanistan against each other. "It is well-known that the Taliban and the 'Islamic State' terrorists, within whose ranks men from Central Asian countries are fighting, are pursuing different interests in northern Afghanistan, and that these differences can be reinforced by supporting the Taliban - and that includes with weapons," said Dubnov.According to him, establishing dialogue with the Taliban would also put pressure on the government of Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, whom Moscow has considered to be a puppet of Washington - at least under the Obama administration.Expectations of WashingtonMoscow expects US President Donald Trump to set new focuses in Afghanistan policy. The Kremlin is particularly interested in finding out whether Washington is willing to withdraw the last 9,000 soldiers from Afghanistan and to discontinue support for the current Afghan president. "If the new US administration no longer insists on unconditionally backing Ghani, then Moscow may offer Washington a new form of joint action for the regulation of the Afghanistan question," surmises Dubnov.Afghanistan could became a topic of Russian-American negotiations, believes Malashenko. If "Islamic State" maintains its strategy of being active in Afghanistan in the long run, then the country could become an area where Moscow and Washington could work together in the fight against terrorism. "It would be good platform for cooperation and negotiations," says Malashenko.This picture, taken in 1962, shows two female medicine students at the University of Kabul listening to their professor as they examine a plaster showing a human body part. At that time, women played an active role in Afghan society. They also had access to education and were able to take up work outside home.Two young women dressed in Western-style outfits are seen in this picture taken in 1962 outside the building of Radio Kabul in the country's capital city, Kabul. After the fundamentalist Taliban took over power in the mid-1990s, women were required to wear an all-covering burqa when in public.In the mid-1970s, female students were a common sight at Afghan education centers such as Kabul's Polytechnical University. But some 20 years later, women's access to education in the conflict-ridden country was completely shut down. And it changed only after the toppling of the Taliban regime in 2001. The right to education for both men and women was enshrined in the 2003 Afghan Constitution.In this picture a Soviet instructor is seen teaching computing technology to Afghan students at Kabul's Polytechnical Institute. During the 10-year Soviet occupation of Afghanistan from 1979 to 1989, a number of Soviet lecturers taught at Afghan universities.This 1981 picture shows an informal gathering of female and male Afghan students in Kabul. In 1979, a Soviet invasion of land-locked Afghanistan led to a 10-year war. When the Soviets withdrew from the country in 1989, a civil war ensued which culminated in the Taliban's accession to power in 1996.This picture shows Afghan girls at a secondary school in Kabul at the time of the Soviet occupation. During the Taliban regime that followed just a few years later, women and girls were barred from attending school and denied access to education. They were also banned from taking up employment outside home.In this picture taken in 1981, a woman, unveiled and without a headscarf, is seen with her children. Scenes such as these have been rare ever since. Even almost 15 years after the collapse of the Taliban regime, women continue to struggle for equality in the male-dominated Afghan society. For instance, there is only one woman taxi driver in the entire country. Author: Esther Felden / sri