A curious scene is playing out in universities across the US: Professors, database geeks, computer-savvy archivists and activists are sitting in front of their laptops, crawling through thousands of websites and copying them.What sounds like a nationwide hackathon is actually a desperate attempt to safeguard as much climate and scientific data as possible before January 20, when Trump is sworn in as the 45th President of the United States.National and international scientists are worried that the new government could redact and whitewash publicly available scientific research and databases. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2W4QW"Our incoming administration professes a position of ardent climate change denial," pointed out Karl-Rainer Blumenthal, a librarian and archivist."This information is far too important to the future of our planet to lose to a modern-day book-burning," Blumenthal told DW in writing.He has organized a meet-up in Chicago to copy data sets, databases and web-based services that researchers and the public rely upon to learn about the causes and effects of global climate change.What began with a call from the University of Toronto and University of Pennsylvania to participate in the End of Term project - a web archive that captures and saves US government websites at the end of each presidential administration - has quickly turned into a "guerrilla archiving" movement.Last minute data-rescue events are taking place across the nation over the course of the week:&nbsp;Indianapolis, Chicago, Los Angeles and Philadelphia.Paranoid or prepared?In a collaborative effort with more than 20 universities and institutions, the Data Refuge project&nbsp;and the Environmental Data Governance Initiative&nbsp;have already copied 6,900 websites onto independent servers.The project Climate Mirror&nbsp;recreates entire websites, storing them on servers across the world to spread the risk of losing any valuable information.To some, the huge data-saving effort might seem irrational.Neither Trump nor any of his team members have indicated they intend to restrict access to or even delete governmental data.But critics point out, Trump's words and actions leave room for doubt.Ahead of his election, Trump vowed he would "tear up" existing climate treaties. In 2012, he tweeted that global warming was "a hoax" that was invented by the Chinese.Trump later changed his tune on climate change, saying he believed there was likely "some connectivity" between climate change and human activity. Yet, he elected climate denier Scott Pruitt to lead the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).The harvesting project might sound "alarmist," admits Bethany Wiggin from the University of Pennsylvania, an organizer of the Data Refuge project."Our position is, better be safe than sorry, and to operate with an abundance of caution. All librarians and archivists will tell you, more copies in more places is always a good idea."Climate data disappeared beforePolitical assaults on scientific information are not unprecedented.The George W. Bush administration shut down some of EPA's research libraries that contained rare environmental data.And at the end of December, Wisconsin's state agency overseeing environmental regulation removed text from its website saying humans and greenhouse gases are the main cause of climate change. The website now claims the subject is a matter of scientific debate.With the Trump presidency looming, many scientists are worried that such action will increase."In the upcoming administration change - with climate deniers in the highest offices - we think there is a risk that more data will be 'lost' than is normally the case," says Wiggin.Climate activists are expecting to ramp up their protest during Trump timesInformation is powerWhy would Trump be interested in deleting or obscuring certain scientific data?"Generally, it can be said that information is knowledge - and knowledge is power," Eileen Wagner, project manager at Open Knowledge Foundation Germany, told DW."With data, you can determine the political discourse. And if you control the data, you can use them for your own political gain."Wagner believes that Trump will continue to collect data on climate change in some form. The question is whether the results will be made publicly available.If the data supports Trumps arguments and plans - sure. But what about data that contradicts the views of the administration?Strangling science Above all, this harvesting of big data reflects a sense of insecurity among scientists in the US.Trump has targeted climate scientists in the past. In&nbsp;December, the Trump transition team requested that the Energy Department provide a list of climate change experts.While not all observers expect Trump to delete existing climate data, they fear his administration is certainly likely to cut funding for new research."A much more likely possibility is&nbsp;that the government will reduce or even eliminate funding to gather new data," Philip Duffy, president of the privately financed Woods Hole Research Center, a climate research think thank, told DW in writing.Advisers to Trump have already proposed to strip funding for NASA climate research.Wiggins admits she is most worried about money. If funding for environmental research programs is curtailed, "it will be very hard for our scientists to carry out their work."Martina Buttler contributed to the&nbsp;text."Trump must choose whether he will be a President remembered for putting America and the world on a path to climate disaster, or for listening to the American public and keeping us on a path to climate progress. Trump better choose wisely, otherwise - we can guarantee him the hardest fight of his life every step of the way. - Michael Brune, Executive Director, The Sierra Club"Today is a bad day for international climate policy. That a climate change denier can be elected as the most powerful man in the world will make efforts to reduce emissions and secure adequate funding for adaptation measures all the more difficult... The international community needs reliable partners for ambitious climate policies." - Sabine Minninger, climate advisor for Brot f r die Welt"The Paris Agreement was signed and ratified not by a President, but by the United States itself. As a matter of international law, and as a matter of human survival, the nations of the world can, must, and will hold the United States to its climate commitments." - Jean Su from California-based Center for Biological Diversity"We know that yesterday's elections are undoubtedly going to affect the tone of the negotiations, but we know the task we have in front of us remains the same: that we must continue to keep our aim and our focus on the long-term that the countries set for themselves in the Paris Agreement." - Mariana Panuncio-Feldman, World Wildlife Fund's (WWF) Senior Director of International Climate Cooperation"For communities in the global south, the U.S. citizens' choice to elect Donald Trump seems like a death sentence. We are suffering the effects of climate change after years of inaction by rich countries... and with an unhinged climate change denier in the White House, the relatively small progress made is under threat." - Wilfred D'Costa, Asian Peoples' Movement on Debt and Development"President-elect Donald Trump's stance on global warming is well known. Ironically, he contributed to the popularity of our recent 'Turn down the heat'-report series for the World Bank by attacking it on Twitter. Yet apart from this, science cannot expect any positive climate action from him." - Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, Director of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research"It's clear that Donald Trump is about to be one of the most powerful people in the world, but even he does not have the power to change the laws of physics... Climate change has become a geopolitical issue of the top order and no country can be perceived as not doing its fair share on climate without serious consequences for its standing in the world." - Alden Meyer, Union of Concerned Scientists"As a young woman and first-time voter I will not tolerate Trump's denialism of the action needed for climate justice. Our country must undergo a systemic change and just transition away from fossil fuels towards renewable energy within my lifetime. The next four years are critical for getting on the right pathway." - Becky Chung, the youth network SustainUS."The fact of climate change is not changed by what happened last night. At this very historic moment, it is important to remind ourselves that we were in the wilderness before and progress was possible. Leaders across the world will expect the US to honor its commitment and they won't wait in the race to the renewable energy future." - Li Shuo, Greenpeace China Donald Trump is the newly elected President of the United States. As of today, the Paris Agreement is an even stronger signal against denying reality and for global cooperation to solve the pressing problems of the world... You cannot ignore the facts." - Christoph Bals, Policy Director of Germanwatch Trump will try and slam the brakes on climate action, which means we need to throw all of our weight on the accelerator... We need the rest of the world to charge ahead and look beyond the White House to partner with civil society, businesses, and local governments who are still committed to climate action... Our work becomes much harder now, but it s not impossible. - 350.org"Africa is already burning. The election of Trump is a disaster for our continent. The United States, if it follows through on its new President's rash words about withdrawing from the international climate regime, will become a pariah state in global efforts for climate action." - Geoffrey Kamese from Friends of the Earth Africa