CAPS United have said they will field a strong squad in their friendly football match against visiting Mozambican champions, Ferroviario de Beira set for the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. BY HENRY MHARABoth teams are using the friendly match to fine-tune their squads for the Caf Champions League assignments in just over a fortnight.Caps United are making their return to the continental stage with a preliminary round match against Lesotho side Lioli, while the Mozambican champions date Zimamoto of Zanzibar.Caps United assistant coach, Fungai Kwashi yesterday said they were taking the match seriously. This international friendly will go a long way in helping us gauge ourselves against foreign opposition as we prepare for the Caf Champions League and it going to be a good game, he said. The spirit in the team is great. We are a great big family and we have gone through good and bad times together especially last season was a very difficult season for us. And we go again this year as a united family the players, the technical team, the board and the fans because we know it s going to be another difficult season. We need to quickly get out of this comfort zone that we were Zimbabwe champions last year and try to be better than we were last season. Kwashi said fans, who are attending the match, should expect to see the team s new arrivals. The Green Machine bolstered their squad with the acqusation of highly-rated midfielder, Ronald Chitiyo, defender, Last Sithole and goalkeeper, Prosper Chigumba.This is not the first time that Caps United and Ferroviario are meeting in a pre-season friendly, having played each other last year.United look a formidable side having managed to hold on to most of their stars from the championship-winning squad.Defender, Stephen Makatuka, who has left for South African Division One side, Amazulu, is the only high-profile player to desert the teamFerroviario have former Dynamos goalkeeper, Willard Manyatera in their books. Kick-off for the match is 3pm and gate charges have been pegged at $2 for the cheapest ticket.