President Donald Trump has signed an executive order to deliver on his campaign vow to build a wall along the US-Mexico border. But the wall in its entirety may never be built for one simple reason. Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto has considered scrapping a meeting with US President Donald Trump scheduled for January 31, local media reported. However, Mexico's foreign minister confirmed that the meeting would take place.In a brief statement, Nieto criticized Trump's executive order on the construction of a wall on the US-Mexico border."I regret and condemn the decision of the United States to continue construction of a wall&nbsp;that, for years, has divided us instead of uniting us," Nieto said. "Mexico does not believe in walls. I have said it time and again: Mexico will not pay for any wall."&nbsp;Trump's executive order to build a wall on the border has been met with fury in the world's largest Spanish-speaking country. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2SzPe"The position is very clear," said Ricardo Anaya Cortes, who serves as the president of the opposition party National Action."Either one cancels the meeting with Donald Trump, or one attends it to say publicly and with absolute firmness that Mexico rejects the wall and we will not pay a single cent for it," he added.Nieto has witnessed his approval ratings drop to historic lows since he met with Trump in August before his electoral victory and failed to publicly condemn the wall at a joint press conference.US to 'pay for it'US House speaker Paul Ryan told American broadcaster "MSNBC" that Washington will front the bill for the wall at first after Trump last year vowed to have Mexico pay for it."There are a lot of different ways of getting Mexico to contribute to doing this, and there are different ways of defining how exactly they pay for it," Ryan said, noting that the US is "going to pay for it and front the money up."He confirmed that the price of constructing the wall is between $8 billion (7.4 billions euros) and $14 billion (13 billion euros).Meanwhile, leftist opposition leader Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador told a crowd of supporters near Mexico City that the government should explore legal mechanisms to block the construction of the wall."I respectfully suggest that the government of Mexico presents a lawsuit at the United Nations against the US government for violation of human rights and racial discrimination," Obrador said.Prisoners participating in the Wild Horse Inmate Program train mustangs that will eventually be adopted by the U.S. Border Patrol, providing the agency with inexpensive but agile horses. The inmates on their turn will be equipped with skills and insights they hope to one day carry with them from Florence State Prison.The horses are trained in Florence, Arizona and applied in border cities like Jacumba and also San Diego in California. They are critical for patrolling the rugged and remote stretches of the Mexican border to detect illegal crossings by migrants and drug trafficking. Just 654 miles (1053 kilometers) of fence exist between the United States and Mexico, accounting for about a third of the border. The rest is defined by mountains, rivers, private ranches and wild country - terrain more suited for horses, which all agents had back when Border Patrol was founded in 1924. Here, Border Patrol agents head out on patrol along the fence near Jacumba, California.On horseback, the agents can navigate desolate stretches of land that vehicles cannot. The mustangs are sure-footed on steep terrain, crossing creekbeds without hesitation and stepping spryly over rattlesnakes. Some 55,000 mustangs roam the Western United States. Here, wild horses are herded into corrals in Milford, Utah.At the prison in Florence, a cactus-dotted town about 140 miles north (225 km) of the Mexican border, most inmates don't have experience with horses. Over the course of four to six months, the men train their horses to tolerate bridles and saddles, respond to commands to trot and canter and perform footwork that will come in handy on the uneven desert terrain along the border.The task of the Florence inmates who train the horses is, at times, thick with irony: Some are Mexican nationals, apprehended on the border for drug-related offenses. The inmates, though, say they don't mind that the horses help law enforcement. They are simply happy the animals no longer face thirst and starvation in the drought-stricken West.The San Diego border patrol unit has 28 horses, of which many were adopted from the Florence prison. These adoptions are key to the government's effort to stem the growing population of mustangs. A federal law tasked the Bureau of Land Management with managing wild horse and burro populations, both to protect the animals and to ensure that vegetation was not overgrazed and water sources depleted.Florence began its horse training program in 2012, and while it is too early to assess the long-term effects on participating inmates, of the 50 or so who have gone through it and have been released, none has returned to prison."It really feels like the Wild West out where we patrol for sure," says Bobby Stine, supervisory agent of the San Diego Sector Horse Patrol Unit. "There's just not a lot of law enforcement presence, except for us." Author: Nadine Berghausen ls/rc (AP, Reuters)