Thuringia's state parliament has marked International Holocaust Remembrance Day without regional Alternative for Germany (AfD) leader Bj rn H cke. He was uninvited. State parliamentary speaker Christian Carius told H cke that his presence at the event would be seen as a provocation. H cke accepted the decision, Carius said in his opening remarks.DW takes a look at the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party - the newest force in German politics. What is it, where did it come from and what role will it play in the 2017 election? Here are all the answers. (20.01.2017) The AfD leadership has decided that regional leader Bj rn H cke will be allowed to remain in the party. H cke had prompted outrage after verbally attacking Germany's national Holocaust memorial and remembrance culture. (23.01.2017) The head of Germany's nationalist AfD has argued that the framers of the constitution had a post-War context that is no longer relevant. In a newspaper interview, she argued that is should not apply to Syrian refugees. (25.01.2017) Does Chancellor Angela Merkel bear some responsibility for the Berlin truck attack? Sahra Wagenknecht, the Left party's parliamentary chairwoman, causes a stir once again. (06.01.2017) The state parliament had invited survivors from the Buchenwald concentration camp near Weimar. H cke was also excluded from Thursday's wreath-laying ceremony at the camp. His speech last week in which he labeled Berlin's Holocaust Memorial a "monument of shame" provoked angry reactions, also within his own party."He needs a good kick in the pants," said one party member. "He went too far. He doesn't represent us," said another member, adding: "We should continue to deal with our past in the same open and honest way." A woman sitting next to her agreed. "We cannot forget what happened, as something like that should never be allowed to happen again.""I was really annoyed," said AfD member Kay Gottschalk. "As someone who used to be a history teacher, H cke should know how to express himself better." Lothar Bleeker, who is also a history teacher as well as spokesman for the AfD regional association in the town of Euskirchen near Bonn, said that H cke's speech "had undertones that, understandably, made people uncomfortable." However, Bleeker is also critical of the way, he says, German history is often "reduced to the 12 years of the Nazi era." That view is shared by almost all of the AfD members who came together on Thursday evening for an event that was supposed to be about German-US relations. Around 130 people between the ages of 30 and 60 showed up for the event. A small group of left-wing protesters demonstrated in front of the venue, resulting in a large police presence.Bj rn H cke unleashed a firestorm of criticism when he called the Holocaust Memorial in Berlin a 'monument of shame'Demands for more patriotismLooking over at the police, one woman says that she can't quite believe "how quickly things have changed, that you can no longer say what you think here in Germany." "We are a different generation, we haven't committed any crimes," she said.Another AfD member presents a similar view as a question: "Why should I be responsible for what a bunch of people did three generations ago?"&nbsp;Another nods and adds: "We weren't part of that war."It becomes increasingly clear that, although Bj rn H cke reaped plenty of scorn for his remarks, at the core of his speech is a feeling that is shared by many inside, and outside, his party. Many in the AfD say they are no longer prepared to accept Germany's "self-imposed low self-esteem" as they put it. When asked why, no answer is forthcoming. "It just can't go on like this," say many of those asked. One man talks about people he knows in the UK who wonder why the Germans seem to be so pre-occupied with the past. Another says it should be permissible for Germans to be critical of Israel. "Everyone else is proud of their country, but we're not," an AfD member complained. If Germany were less vigilant about remembering its past, it doesn't mean there would be greater danger of history repeating itself, he says, despite the current rise in right-wing populism.Lothar Bleeker is critical of the way history is taught in Germany'Something's not right' Are Germans being forced to remember the crimes of the Nazi era? Is it no longer possible to have a different opinion?"This is a dictatorship!" an AfD member shouts into the microphone. Clearly, many of the other party members agree. Regional party spokesman Bleeker tells an anecdote about his son's violin teacher. The man is a German-Russian who lived in Russia in the 1960s and '70s. His only source of independent news at the time was Deutsche Welle. "He was surprised about the situation here. And now he says he's once again seeing the kind of secretive conservations among people of the same opinion that he knew back then," Bleeker said.Another man recommends turning to foreign news sources."It was only by coincidence that we heard about New Year's Eve attacks on women by foreign men in Innsbruck, like there were in Cologne," he said, adding that the German press doesn't report about such incidents anymore. "Something's not right here," he said.Of course, the evening's AfD event is only a snapshot, a sample of the current opinions circulating within the party. Bleeker adds that the group is likely to be more representative of AfD views in western Germany. However, many of the views expressed here in Euskirchen are shared by AfD supporters in eastern Germany. That includes the clear criticism of H cke, repeated frequently by party leader Frauke Petry.On Sunday, there's going to be a regional AfD party congress for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in Oberhausen. Many say that at this congress, it will be clear that the splinter group - known as the "Patriotic Platform" that was a disruptive influence and that once included a quarter of delegates - has now been "pulverized." Bleeker, for one, is confident that it no longer exists. Frauke Petry, however, continues to speak of a "common source of concern for the party."The leader of the Alternative for Germany, Frauke Petry, said police could use guns as a last resort to prevent illegal border crossings, pointing out "that's the law." What began as a euroskeptic party has turned into an anti-establishment and anti-EU force, claiming up to 25 percent of votes in German state elections in March 2016 and taking second place in Chancellor Angela Merkel's home state.Many believe Brexit and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential elections could give new impetus to France's National Front. Established in 1972 and now led by Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in 2011, the National Front is a nationalist party that uses populist rhetoric to promote its anti-immigration and anti-EU positions.The leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, is one of Europe's most prominent right-wing politicians. He was convicted in December for asking a crowd in 2014 if they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the country, but no penalty was imposed. His party is considered anti-EU and anti-Islam. It is leading polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections and currently holds 15 seats.Nikos Michaloliakos is the head of Greece's neo-fascist party Golden Dawn. He was arrested in September 2013 along with dozens of other party members and charged with forming a criminal organization. Michaloliakos was released in July 2015. Golden Dawn won 18 seats in parliamentary elections in September 2016. The party holds anti-immigrant views and favors a defense agreement with Russia.Hungary's anti-immigration, populist and economic protectionist party Jobbik aspires to be in the government by 2018. Now Hungary's third-largest party, it won 20 percent of votes in the last elections held in 2014. It wants a referendum on EU membership. Jobbik also advocates criminalizing "sexual deviancy," submitting a bill targeting homosexuals in 2012. Jobbik is headed by Gabor Vona.After Trump's election, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson said in an interview with Swedish TV: "There is a movement in both Europe and the United States where the establishment is being challenged. It is clearly happening here as well." The Sweden Democrats call for restricting immigration, are against allowing Turkey to join the EU and want a referendum on EU membership. Norbert Hofer of Austria's nationalist Freedom Party lost the recent presidential runoff by a mere 30,000 votes, after being front-runner in the first round. Former Green party leader Alexander Van der Bellen won 50.3 percent of the vote, with Hofer gaining 49.7 percent. The Freedom Party's leader campaigns for the strengthening of the country's borders and limiting benefits for immigrants.The leader of the hard-right People's Party - Our Slovakia, Marian Kotleba, has said, "Even one immigrant is one too many." On another occasion, he called NATO a "criminal organization." This Slovak party favors leaving the EU as well as the eurozone. It won 8 percent of the vote in March 2016 elections, securing 14 seats in the country's 150-member parliament.