The bill reduces the crime of battery of a relative to a civil offense instead of a criminal offense when the victim "has suffered no serious harm." It stems from a Supreme Court ruling to decriminalize battery that doesn't inflict bodily harm.The Duma, Russia's lower house of parliament, passed the bill in its second of three readings by 385 votes to two. To become law, the draft must go through a further reading and win approval from the upper house of parliament, largely a rubber-stamp body, and then be signed by President Vladimir Putin. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2X1xQKremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Wednesday it was important to distinguish between "family relations" and repeated instances of violence.Members of Putin's United Russia party said the bill would protect parents' right to discipline their children and reduce the state's ability to interfere in family life."This is a historic vote because in certain countries the state's role in family life is way too much," said Andrei Isayev, an MP representing United Russia. "Today's vote will end such practices in the Russian Federation."Anyone who inflicts serious physical harm will still be criminally liable."The criminal code still carries criminal responsibility for battery, but now it will be applicable only for repeat offenders," Olga Batalina, one of the bill's co-authors, told state television. All those "who terrorize their family members, who do it repeatedly [...] will face criminal responsibility."Russian President Vladimir Putin gives a speech at the opening session of the newly elected State Duma in 2016Women's rights?Activists picketed the Duma on Wednesday morning to oppose the bill, which has caused controversy and attracted more than 200,000 signatures online against it.Women's rights campaigners called the proposed law a step backwards."This law calls for the exoneration of tyrants in the home," Maria Mokhova, executive director of the "Sisters" crisis center for abuse victims, said. "The message is, 'Let's not punish a person who at home beat up his family, just because he has the right to do that,'" she told the Reuters news agency.A national problemAbout 14,000 women die every year in Russia at the hands of husbands or other relatives, according to a 2010 United Nations report.A survey this month by state-run pollster VTsIOM showed that 19 percent of Russians said "it can be acceptable" to hit one's wife, husband or child "in certain circumstances."Putin joined the KGB, the former Soviet Union's security agency, in 1975. In the 1980s he undertook his first foreign posting as a KGB agent to Dresden, Germany. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, Putin returned to Russia and entered Boris Yeltsin's Kremlin. When Yeltsin announced that he wanted Putin as his successor, the way was paved for him to become prime minister. On his appointment, Putin was virtually unknown to the general public. This changed when in August 1999 armed men from Chechnya invaded the neighboring Russian territory of Dagestan. President Yeltsin appointed ex-KGB officer Putin to bring Chechnya back under the central government's control. On New Year's Eve, Yeltsin unexpectedly resigned and named Putin as acting president. During an exhibition hockey game in Sochi, Putin s team won 18-6, with the president scoring eight goals.A protester wears a tape over his mouth reading "Putin" during an opposition rally. In 2013 the Kremlin announced that the state-owned news agency, RIA Novosti, was to be restructured and placed under the control of a pro-Kremlin figure known for his extreme anti-Western views. Reporters without Borders ranked Russia as 148 in its list of 178 countries in terms of press freedom. Putin's image as a man of action, boosted by his having been a KGB spy, has long been part of his appeal in Russia. It is carefully maintained by means of photos where he is seen bare-chested on horseback, or tossing opponents onto a judo mat. In Russia, Putin has earned praise for restoring stability but has also been accused of authoritarianism.When President Putin's United Russia party won a landslide victory in parliamentary elections in 2007, critics described the vote as neither free nor democratic. Dozens were detained as riot police broke up protests by demonstrators accusing President Putin of stifling democracy. In this rally the poster reads: "Thank you, no!" In Sevastopol, Crimea, Putin looks through the window of a research bathyscaphe in the waters of the Black Sea. This dive in a mini-submarine was only one of his adventurous stunts; he has also been seen tranquilizing wild tigers and flying with endangered cranes. It was also aimed at cementing his image as an adventurer, and demonstrating his control of the annexed territory of Crimea. Author: Nadine Berghausen jbh/sms (Reuters, AP, AFP)