Mexico's government rebuked Israel for a tweet by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in support of Trump's plan to build a border wall to keep out illegal immigrants from Mexico.Netanyahu's tweet, which compared the planned border fortification with a wall that Israel had built on the country's southern border with Egypt under Netanyahu's leadership, implied this was a "great idea" to keep out illegal immigrants.Netanyahu's comment was, however, "forcefully rejected" by leaders of the Jewish community in Mexico. Mony de Swaan, a former head of the Mexican telecommunications regulator, replied to Netanyahu's words by posting images of walls from various Nazi concentration camps, implying these could serve as "a couple of nice designs" for Netanyahu to choose.Mexico hits backPresident Trump had signed the&nbsp;executive order to "plan, design and construct a physical wall" along the 3,200-kilometre (2,000-mile) US-Mexico border earlier in the week, making good on one of his main campaign pledges.Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto staunchly disagrees with the erection of the wallIn an interview after signing the order, Trump had cited Israel's 240-kilometer (150-mile) wall which, he claimed, had managed to "stop 99.9 percent" of illegal immigration into Israel.Trump's comments were also seen as a sign of support of Israel's own controversial walls, which - in addtition to curbing migrants coming from the south - also divide Israeli and Palestinian communities throughout the West Bank and East Jerusalem.The controversy surrounding Netanyahu's statement regarding the wall meanwhile also prompted an unusually blunt statement from Mexico's foreign ministry:"The Foreign Ministry expressed to the government of Israel, via its ambassador in Mexico, its profound astonishment, rejection and disappointment over Prime Minister Netanyahu's message on Twitter about the construction of a border wall. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2WU8H"Mexico is a friend of Israel and should be treated as such by its Prime Minister," the ministry said.Mexico has been increasingly outspoken about its disapproval of Trump's border policy; Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto canceled a visit to meet Trump after US president had advised him to forgo the trip if he was not willing to pay for the erection of the wall. Trump maintains that he will find a way to make Mexico "pay for the wall."Backtracking on statementIsrael's Haaretz newspaper reported that the Prime Minister's office issued a statement stressing that Netanyahu was not trying to voice an actual opinion on US-Mexican relations.Israel's foreign ministry spokesman Emmanuel Nahshon also said in a tweet that Netanyahu had referred to "our specific security experience which we are willing to share. We do not express a position on US-Mexico relations." ss/bw&nbsp;(AFP, Reuters)The border wall with Mexico was the signature promise of now President Donald Trump's election campaign, standing out from the storm of controversial and often contradictory campaign statements. Once elected, Trump quickly set the wheels in motion by ordering the construction to start. Experiences from around the world, however, show that massive barriers do not come easy - or cheap.The so-called "Tortilla Wall" already spans some 700 miles (1,126 kilometers) of the US-Mexico border. Experts believe that the US would need to pay between $15 billion and $25 billion in order to fully wall-off the entire southern frontier. US President Trump has said it would cost less and that Mexico would foot the bill.Israel started building its own controversial barrier in 2002, with construction continuing to this day. The structure is expected to stretch at least 650 kilometers (403 miles) across the Holy Land, most of it consisting of an electric wire fence. Observers believe its cost has already topped $2.6 billion (2.4 billion euros), with maintenance costs reaching $260 million per year.The Berlin Wall spanned 155 kilometers (91 miles) before its demolition in 1991. Unlike the many other walls across the world, the barrier was built by East Germany to keep the would-be emigrants inside the country. It cost about $25 million to build in 1961, equivalent to $200 million (almost 186.5 million euros) in present-day money.Capitalist South Korea and its Communist northern neighbor are divided by barbed wire and watchtowers, as well as around 1 million landmines. Following the 1953 truce, both Pyongyang and Seoul agreed to pull their troops 2 kilometers (1.24 miles) away inland, creating a demilitarized zone along the border that stretches 248 kilometers (154 miles).A total of 48 "peace lines" separate Catholic and Protestant neighborhoods in Belfast, a legacy of centuries-long religious war. The barriers including high brick walls, concrete structures, barb wire and metal bars. These barricades include gates to allow for circulation of people and traffic, but the gates close after nightfall.