German authorities arrested considerably fewer human traffickers in 2016 compared to the previous year. More than 50 percent of arrests were made on the Austrian-German border. (08.01.2017) Amid an ongoing dispute with Berlin, Bavaria's government is due to finalize its proposal for Germany's refugee policy. As well as a yearly cap on refugee arrivals, Premier Horst Seehofer is calling for tighter borders. (07.01.2017) Bavarian police found the group in the municipality of Brannenburg, just across the Austrian border, officials said on Sunday. The temperature at the car park measured -20 degrees Celsius (-4 Fahrenheit) when the police and an ambulance reached them.The 19 migrants told the police they arrived from a refugee center in Italy. They had paid an unknown smuggler between 500 and 800 euros ($526-842) per person to take them to Germany, and were riding in a van bearing UK license plates."After an hours-long drive, the unscrupulous driver pulled over in an unheated area and disappeared,"&nbsp;police said. According to unconfirmed information, the vehicle had engine trouble.One of the migrants subsequently approached two other people at the car park and asked them for help.Traffickers cross Austrian borderPolice were looking for the driver, authorities said. The migrants, who carried no passports, said they were from Iraq, Iran&nbsp;and Syria. Five of them were youngsters,&nbsp;and the police handed four of the children to the youth welfare office. The remaining refugees were taken to an accommodation center.While the number of migrant arrivals in Germany&nbsp;dropped considerably during 2016, people smugglers are still transporting asylum seekers across German borders. The southeast border with Austria remains the most popular route,&nbsp;with German authorities detaining hundreds of suspected smugglers in the area over the last twelve months.In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo.Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield.In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing.Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls.Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria.In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticised by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU.With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart dj/jm&nbsp;(Reuters, dpa, KNA)&nbsp;