A spokeswoman for the office of Germany's chief prosecutor on Wednesday said authorities&nbsp;have taken a second Tunisian suspect into custody following raids in Berlin on Tuesday.Investigators have raided the homes of two suspected associates of Anis Amri, the man linked to last month's deadly Christmas market attack in Berlin. Officials declined to confirm whether the men have been detained. The suspect contacted the "Islamic State" group, but said he tried to defraud them, prosecutors said. The Syrian planned to disguise vehicles as patrol cars and fill them with explosives. Every day, German terrorism prevention center authorities analyze potential threats. Yet the Christmas market attack in Berlin still happened. The search for mistakes and those responsible for them is now underway. A Syrian teenager is accused of scoping potential landmark targets in the German capital on behalf of the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) jihadi group. Shaas Al-M. arrived in Germany during 2015's migrant influx. (04.01.2017) A warrant has been issued by the Justice Ministry for the Tunisian suspect, who had been in contact with Anis Amri, the prime suspect&nbsp;in December's Christmas market attack, the night before it occurred."This contact person is a 26-year-old Tunisian. We are investigating him for possibly&nbsp;participating in the attack," spokeswoman Frauke K hler told reporters, adding that prosecutors suspected he may have known&nbsp;about Amri's plan.However, she added that there was insufficient evidence to charge the suspect.In a separate statement, the federal prosecutor's office announced the man had been charged with committing social welfare fraud and would&nbsp;remain in custody.However, a number of German media outlets, including German daily "S ddeutsche Zeitung" and public broadcasters WDR and NDR, reported Wednesday that the suspect is considered a Salafist capable of carrying out radical actions, such as an attack.Martin Steltner,&nbsp;spokesman for Berlin's state prosecutor, also told German broadcaster rbb on Wednesday that the suspect had previously been detained on suspicion of supplying explosives intended for a prospective attack in Dusseldorf.Hiowever, the man was freed at the time after investigators found no evidence against him.Links to AmriThe 26-year-old suspect allegedly had dinner with Amri at a restaurant the night before the attack, according to K hler. The suspect allegedly met Amri in late 2015. "S ddeutsche Zeitung" reported that the two men traveled together from Italy to Germany&nbsp; that year. The spokeswoman noted that electronic communication devices discovered during the raid had been seized, and that authorities are in the process of evaluating content found on them.On Tuesday, German police raided a refugee shelter and flat in Berlin in connection with the Christmas market attack.Meanwhile, Italian police confirmed on Wednesday that a gun used to kill the Polish driver of the truck used in the Christmas market attacked was the same as one used in a shootout with police in Milan, in which Amri was killed.On the same day, Swiss authorities announced they were launching&nbsp;criminal proceedings related to the Berlin attacks. Without providing specifics, the prosecutors said they were looking into a possible violation of Switzerland's ban on the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) and Al-Qaeda, as well as support of a criminal organization.Prosecutors: Suspect gestured to cameraAuthorities say Amri, a Tunisian who had his asylum application rejected, drove a large truck through a Christmas market in Berlin on December 19, leaving 12 dead and dozens more injured.&nbsp;He was killed in a shootout with&nbsp;police in Italy after a Europe-wide manhunt for the assailant.K hler&nbsp;added that prosecutors believe&nbsp;Amri was&nbsp;filmed by surveillance cameras raising his finger in an apparent gesture used by supporters of the&nbsp;"Islamic State" militant group&nbsp;after fleeing the scene of the terrorist attack. She said&nbsp;that he appeared to be aware that he was being filmed.Shortly after the attack, the IS militant group claimed responsibility for the Christmas market attack, claiming Amri was "targeting citizens of the Crusader coalition."Germany is a member of the US-led coalition launching airstrikes against the militant group in Iraq and Syria.Terror threatIn a New Year's Eve address, German Chancellor Angela Merkel described terrorism as the greatest challenge facing the country following several attacks committed in 2015."Without a doubt, the most difficult test we've faced is Islamist terrorism, which has also had us Germans in its crosshairs for many years," she added.Meanwhile, police in Saarland arrested a Syrian suspect on Sunday for planning an attack involving disguised police patrol cars filled with hundreds of kilograms of explosives.The suspect claimed he was attempting to defraud IS after investigators discovered messages on his mobile phone.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart ls,dm/se (AFP, dpa, AP)