In the report released Wednesday, entitled '"If you are poor you, you are killed"': Extrajudicial killings in the Philippines' "War on Drugs,"' Amnesty accused the police force of targeting the poor in "widespread, deliberate and systematic" extrajudicial killings that were ordered by superiors and condoned by Duterte's policy.The human rights organization also said the police had planted evidence, hired paid assassins&nbsp;and falsified official reports which differed significantly from witness testimony."The police are behaving like the criminal underworld that they are supposed to be enforcing the law against," the report said.Payment per 'encounter'In what Amnesty called "an economy of murder," a cash reward paid out for every dead body incentivized police to kill individuals who were mostly poor and often defenseless. According to testimony in the report, payment ranged from 8,000 pesos (US $161) to 15,000 pesos (US $302) per "encounter," a term used by police to give a veneer of legitimacy to the extrajudicial killings.No payment was provided for arrests made.Police targeted individuals taken from unverified lists of alleged drug users or sellers provided to them by local authorities. In some cases, individuals names could be added arbitrarily based on petty grievances or personal vendettas. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2UGtuIn the investigation, Amnesty examined the killings of 59 people. Throughout November and December 2016, researchers conducted 110 witness interviews and reviewed police reports.Crimes against humanitySince Duterte took office seven months ago, over 2,500 individuals have been killed by the police while almost 4,000 others have died in unexplained circumstances. He has&nbsp;condoned police killing as an effective means of ridding Philippine society of drugs and bragged about personally killing suspected criminals.However, Duterte lashed out at police for corruption after the news broke that Philippine National Police had kidnapped and killed a South Korean businessman on false drug charges.&nbsp;In the report's conclusion, Amnesty called for the Duterte government to further investigate into the mass killings."Amnesty International is deeply concerned that these deliberate and widespread killings, which appear to be systematic, planned and organized by the authorities, may constitute crimes against humanity the state has an obligation to investigate, prosecute and punish those responsible for these crimes under international law and for other gross violations of human rights."Inmates who cannot be accommodated in the prison cells sleep on the ground in the open air. At present, it's rainy season in the Philippines. And in the current tropical temperatures, it's raining almost every day.Whoever possesses a hammock should consider themselves lucky. The prison, which was built 60 years ago, has a capacity to house 800 inmates. But today there are as many as 3,800.Every nook and corner in the prison is occupied. Most of the prisoners sleep on either thin sheets or bare concrete floor.A prisoner toughens up his muscles in an exercise room.Signboards remind inmates of prison rules. The handcuffed prisoners shown here are awaiting their trial.One prisoner cleans the toilet while the others try to kill time.Only occasionally can the prisoners free themselves of sweat, filth and stench.A guard locks the gate in the evening, while the inmates get ready for another night in the overcrowded prison.Many hold newly elected President Duterte responsible for the inhumane situation. His campaign against drugs has shown no mercy. He has called on the people to kill drug addicts, which has led to an unprecedented wave of vigilantism in the Southeast Asian nation. Cases have been filed against 600,000 drug dealers and addicts so far, completely overwhelming the justice system. Author: Rodion Ebbighausen / sri cmb/jm (AFP, Reuters, dpa)