US President Donald Trump and Israeli President Benjamin Netanyahu at a press conference on Wednesday expressed confidence that relations between the two countries would reach new heights with Trump in the White House.United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem A number of statements from Trump indicated a dramatic shift in US Middle East policy, including an indifferent attitude toward a two-state solution, saying a single-state solution could also be acceptable if Palestinians and Israelis agree to it."I'm looking at two-state and one-state and I like the one that both parties like," Trump said. "I'm very happy with the one that both parties like."He said it was up to the two sides to negotiate a peace deal and that both sides would have to make compromises to reach an agreement. The last round of substantive peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians occurred in 2014.Trump also rejected "unfair and one-sided actions against Israel at the UN," referring to a UN resolution passed in December condemning Israeli settlements. The then-US ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, abstained from the UN vote with the approval of President Barack Obama, clearing the way for the measure to pass without approval the measure without a veto from the permanent members of the Security Council.Against the grainTrump said that while he had previously held the belief that a two-state solution "would be easiest," then he conceded that as long as Israel and the Palestinians were satisfied, he could "live with either one."Palestinians were alarmed at the possibility Washington might turn its back on efforts for an independent Palestinian nation."If the Trump administration rejects this policy it would be destroying the chances for peace and undermining American interests, standing and credibility abroad," said Hanan Ashrawi, a senior member of the Palestine Liberation Organization.Multiple US administrations, led by both Republicans and Democrats, have called for Middle East peace that includes the creation of a state for Palestinians. The two-state solution has also long served as the basis for international peace negotiations.Much of the international community - including Germany - supports the two-state solution.'Hold back on settlements'Trump called on Netanyahu to "hold back on settlements a little bit." The Israeli leader said settlements were not the core of the conflict, made no commitment to cut back settlement activity and said the conditions for peace were Palestinians recognizing Israel's right to exist and Israeli security control of the region west of the Jordan River.Netanyahu also brought up the fact that a Middle East peace agreement could be better negotiated by regional partners."We can seize a historic opportunity, for the first time in my lifetime, and the first time in the life of my country," he said, "Arab countries do not see Israel as an enemy, but increasingly, as an ally."The issue of Iran's nuclear ambitions also came up during the press conference. Trump repeated his opposition to the Iran nuclear deal brokered by the Obama administration. Netanyahu praised the Trump's administration's recent sanctions against Iran and expressed his hope that Israel would be able to work with the United States to curb Iran's nuclear ambitions something he said was "long overdue."mz/sms (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa)