If you hunt in the dark, it helps to carry a flashlight. At least that seems to be true of the aptly&nbsp;named splitfin flashlight fish.The animals, which live in the Pacific Ocean, have light organs located underneath their eyes, which the fish can turn on and off, as if&nbsp;blinking.So how do you get a built-in flashlight like this? The flashlight fish have pouches under their eyes, which contain bioluminescent bacteria - their natural light bulbs, so to speak.The fish can roll the pouches back, covering up the light source - allowing&nbsp;them to turn the light on and off.This process can also be quite rapid. At night, the fish usually crank up their natural stroboscopes to about 90 blinks per minute. Pretty flashy -&nbsp;but what's the point of these disco lights? Researchers from Ruhr-University in Germany think they may have an idea."The splitfin flashlight fish use bioluminescent light to detect planktonic prey during the night and adjust the blink frequency in a context-dependent manner," says Jens Hellinger, chair of the Department of Zoology and Neurobiology at Ruhr-University Bochum.The researchers studied a swarm of splitfin flashlight fish in a coral&nbsp;reef aquarium, and found that the frequency of blinks decreased&nbsp;from around 90 to around 18 per minute when the fish&nbsp;detected prey. For that, they also kept the lights on for longer. The scientists suspect that they do so to be able to better detect prey.Since Hellinger's team, which published its findings in the current issue of the journal PLOS One,&nbsp;conducted its investigation in a fish tank, the researchers recommend that the phenomenon should be reexamined in the wild to confirm that the fish display the same behavior under natural conditions.Despite its name, an electric eel is not an eel but a so-called knifefish. It is indeed electric, though, and generates powerful electric shocks of up to 600 volts to kill prey. Researchers now found that the fish uses its high-voltage discharge simultaneously as a high-precision tracking device - similar to the buzzing of echo-locating bats.Banded archerfish live in brackish water and have come up with a different way to kill prey - they spit a jet of water into the air to shoot down insects. Larger fish may even hit targets up to three meters away.This fish buries itself in the sand and waits till its prey passes its head. Then it leaps upwards and gets its meal. Stargazers have top-mounted eyes and a large, upward-facing mouth. If you ever see one, be careful - the species is venomous.Venomous and good at hiding? The stonefish is an expert in both! The species looks exactly like a stone which is overgrown with algae. But step on it and you will come to know its needle-like venomous spines. It is one of the most venomous fish and can even be fatal for humans.Pufferfish have an elastic stomach they can fill with water when feeling threatened. This way they become much larger and almost spherical in shape. They produce the highly toxic tetrodotoxin, which kills humans. In Japan, though, pufferfish are a delicacy - and edible when the cook knows how to prepare the meal correctly.An anglerfish attracts its prey with a fishing rod called illicium, a fleshy growth from the fish's head. The tip of the fishing rod illuminates to make prey even more curious - before they are swallowed up by the huge mouth of the predator. Anglerfish can be found almost anywhere in the world, including the deep sea.If you are looking for crazy-looking fish, the deep sea is the place to go! High pressure, almost no light and little food - animals have to be specially adapted to be able to live here. Like this viperfish. If prey passes him, he wants to make absolutely sure he really gets his meal - that's what the huge mouth and the sharp teeth are for.Flatfish like the plaice are flat - no doubt about that. They are extremely well camouflaged and bury themselves in the sediment. During their development, one eye migrates round the head to lie on the same side as the other.If we talk about bizarre fish, we have to mention this one - even though they might look just cute. Seahorses are one of the few species that swim vertically. But because this is not the best way to do it, they are poor swimmers. The males have a pouch, carry the fertilized eggs and give birth to the young.Mudskippers couldn't apparently decide if they like land or water more. So they chose both and live in intertidal habitats. They are definitely fish but can use their pectoral fins to walk on land. They can breathe through their skin - just like amphibians.Who wouldn't call this kind of a head crazy? Researchers believe that the flat, sideways extended head gives a hammerhead shark a higher visual field. That helps him see more, especially prey. Author: Brigitte Osterath