Following a referendum defeat, Italian PM Matteo Renzi has said he will step down without delay. European leaders, including Angela Merkel, have reacted with disappointment after voters rejected his proposed reforms. (04.12.2016) The "No" campaign in Italy won with feelings, not with sense, says Bernd Riegert in Rome. The consequences for Italy could be dire. (05.12.2016) Founded by comedian Beppe Grillo, the Italian populist M5S sees itself as the solution to problems caused by a self-interested elite. But what do they offer? And will Renzi s resignation lead them to power nationally? (14.12.2016) Former Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi called for a leadership contest in his ruling Democratic Party (PD) on Monday, citing party infighting.Renzi served as Italian Prime Minister from February 2014, following an internal party coup, until losing a referendum vote in December 2016. Renzi is still the party secretary, a position he has held since December 2013.Renzi said the party must unite to defeat populism and prevent protectionist policies that are gaining momentum across Europe. Renzi repeatedly mentioned US President Donald Trump's name, telling top PD figures to combat "Trumpism" in his pitch."The politics of fear" are fueling the popularity of populist parties, said Renzi.Possible early elections Renzi has also called for early national elections to fellow PD members."I think it's common sense to accept the idea of holding a Congress before a national vote," said Renzi. "A cycle is closing in the leadership of the PD."Italian parliamentary elections are currently scheduled for 2018. Current opinion polls show the PD neck and neck with the populist Five Star Movement, led by comedian-turned-political activist Beppe Grillo, and fellow anti-immigration party Northern League - both of which&nbsp;have also called for early elections.Five Star Movement leader Beppe Grillo also wants early electionsParliament has yet to agree to a new electoral law. Senior Italian political sources have told Reuters they expect current Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni to continue leading the legislature for the rest of the term, though one of Renzi's allies told Reuters Renzi has not lost hope of a national election in June.kbd/kl (AFP, AP, Reuters)