If only they had done it out of full conviction. If they at least believed that they could really benefit their country by withdrawing from the EU. But many of the parliamentarians&nbsp;whose vote will finally set Brexit on its wayhave voted&nbsp;against their hearts, as well as their minds.It was a vote against their minds, because the withdrawal from the EU will almost certainly, at least on a short to medium term basis, have negative repercussions for the British economy. And it was a vote against their hearts, because for many, a view of the future, divorced from Brussels and increasingly reliant on an unpredictable US President Donald Trump, is somewhat alarming. In recent days, many members of parliament have described it as "a catastrophe."Birgit Maa is DW's London correspondentNo vote "against the will of the people."Of course there are "Brexiteers" who believe that a Britain independent of Brussels will be able to return to its former greatness, once it is no longer held back by the "Little Europeans." But they are in the minority -&nbsp;the majority of parliamentarians already declared their support for remaining in the EU during the referendum campaign.Yet despite this, Theresa May's government was able to push its legislative proposal through the House of Commons without any great difficulty. The predominant view, also amongst members of the two leading parties, is that to hinder Brexit and to fail to support the government in its endeavors to do so, would be to go "against the will of the people." Anti-EU newspapers have targeted Brexit opponents. And those who have publically come out in support of the EU have had to reckon with death threats. The at times passionate debate in the lower house, that went on over several days, was a temporary highlight in this European tragedy, which in the worst case could contribute to the continent disintegrating into individual sovereign states.Don't be intimidatedThe British public supports the hard-line position taken by Prime Minister May in withdrawing from the common market. Polls are showing that her strategy is gaining increased support. There is no turning back now. The British are now looking for clarity on the repercussions of their withdrawal from the EU. They want the negotiations with the EU to start as soon as possible. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2RObcIt was an historical misjudgement by David Cameron that he could win the referendum. Most of the members of the lower house believed the then-prime minister and voted to hold a referendum. But now they can no longer stop Brexit.But they should not let themselves be intimidated by party discipline, nor the leading Brexiteers, nor by voter impatience. Over the next two years they should use every chance they can to influence the withdrawal process. May announced that although they are leaving the European Union, they will not be moving away from Europe. The parliamentarians must now hold her to her word.Have something to say? Add your comments below. The thread will stay open for 24 hours after publication.Around 200 Pro-Brexit protesters gathered outside the Houses of Parliament demanding a speedy exit from the European Union. They accuse the government of deliberately delaying the process by looking for loopholes to prevent Brexit.An EU-supporter protests outside the High Court in London as the Supreme Court announces that both the Scottish and Welsh Governments will be allowed to intervene in a court battle over how the Brexit process should be formally triggered. stands in front of an EU-supporter outside Britain's High Court. The battle over Britain's exit from the European Union reached the High Court in a legal challenge to Prime Minister Theresa May's right to start negotiations for Britain to leave the EU without a vote in parliament. The move could delay Brexit if successful and set up a constitutional face-off between the courts and the government.Under the slogan "March for Europe" EU-friendly Britons protested in Parliament Square in central London. Up to 2,000 protesters took a route from Hyde Park to the British parliament building in Westminster. Protests also took place in other British cities, including Edinburgh and Birmingham.At the same demonstration, a much smaller counterprotest took place. Brexit supporters with banners such as "No More Excuses, We Want Brexit Now!" vented their anger about the stalemate in Brexit proceedings. but also worry about the recent wave of xenophobia and racism as a result of the vote in June. Paul Bagguley, a sociologist at Leeds University specializing in multicultural conflict in Britain, says that Brexit "was a kind of celebratory racism, partly because there was a political campaign in the run-up to it which legitimized expressions of racism."When the value of a currency drops, the price of imports rises. But the situation with Marmite has been more complicated. Although Marmite is produced in the UK, it is owned by Unilever, an Anglo/Dutch company. It claimed that the price of the popular yeast spread had risen due to Brexit. Supermarket chain, Tesco, reacted by refusing to carry it. Thankfully, an agreement was reached.This year Birmingham is hosting the German christmas market, with 138 stalls. If the British government imposes permits and visas in the wake of Brexit, then stallholders may find it too complicated to come to Britain. They may turn to other EU countries instead. But perhaps there's still reason to hope: Gl hwein, wooden toys and Bratwurst will probably always be in demand. The organiser of the Frankfurt Christmas Market in Birmingham, Kurt Stroscher, told the Birmingham Mail: "Brexit and the low value of the pound will not have any effect on prices." Author: Nadine Berghausen