1. He really calls himself Darth VaderIt may be playing on his opponents' fears or he could be serious: Both in "The New York Times" and "Hollywood Reporter," Bannon likened himself to the force of darkness from Star Wars. "Darkness is good," he told the Reporter. "Dick Cheney. Darth Vader. Satan. That's power." Bannon is not only Trump's chief strategist, but now a regular member of the president's National Security Council. The unusual promotion grants the avowed nativist even more influence, including over foreign policy. Bannon is already regarded as an ideological puppet master behind Trump's decisions, including the stricter-than-expected executive order temporarily banning all refugees as well as those from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States.2. Bannon empowered the 'alt-right'Unlike Trump, Bannon has a long record to support his ideology. He became politically aware in the 1970s, he said, while serving on a US Navy destroyer in the Indian Ocean. President Jimmy Carter did not respond hard enough to the Iran hostage crisis, in his view. The event pushed him to the right - clearly anti-Muslim and vaguely racist. His ultra-conservative media organization, Breitbart, yields further insight into his worldview. He served as its executive chairman from 2012-2016 and wrote extensively for the platform.It was Breitbart's sensational headlines and conspiracy theories that helped push the Republican Party further right and ushered Trump into the White House. In 2016, Bannon was asked if his alt-right movement was racist and anti-Semitic. "Are there anti-Semites within the alt-right? Absolutely. Are there racists within the alt-right? Absolutely. But I don't think the movement itself is anti-Semitic."Bannon was chief executive of Donald Trump's presidential campaign3. 'Fear is a good thing'Bannon seems to prefer warlike rhetoric and friend-versus-foe philosophy. It's&nbsp;likely Trump's inaugural speech was largely a product of Bannon's pen. The new president spoke of "American carnage" devastating US cities and states, part of a dark and terrifying address that painted the US and the world in stark strokes of downfall. "Fear is good. Fear is going to lead you to take action," Bannon said in his 2010 documentary, produced to stir up America's new right.4. He earns money every time you watch SeinfeldBannon and his right-wing populist "Breitbart News" may rail against so-called liberal Hollywood, but he also profits from it - specifically, with every airing of "Seinfeld." Bannon owns a stake in the famous sitcom from the 1990s after negotiating the sale of its production company to Ted Turner. Jason Alexander, the actor who played Seinfeld's neurotic George Costanza, called it "sad" on Twitter.This was all before Bannon's turn to the right with Breitbart. By that point in his career, he had already earned millions in the 1980s as an investment banker for Goldman Sachs. It is another talent Bannon has in common with his boss: making deals that largely enrich himself.