The 46-year-old North Korean man sought medical assistance at a Kuala Lumpur airport and died en route to hospital, Malaysian police said. According to the authorities, he was traveling under the name of Kim Chol.South Korean media, however, reported that the victim was Kim Jong-nam, the half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Malaysian officials have confirmed his identitiy. He was apparently killed by two unidentified women&nbsp;who then fled in a hailed cab, according to South Korean TV Chosun. The Reuters news agency reported that the women were believed to be North Korean operatives.North Korean ruler Kim Jong-un has ruled since 2011A Malaysian official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Kim Jong-nam was sprayed with a liquid in the shopping concourse, contrary to earlier reports that the women used poisonous needles.&nbsp;In a separate statement, Malaysian police representative Fadzil Ahmat said that the cause of the death was still unknown."The deceased ... felt like someone grabbed or held his face from behind," Fadzil said. "He felt dizzy, so he asked for help," at an airline counter.An estranged sibling Kim Jong-Nam was once tipped to rule the countryKim Jong-nam was estranged from his younger sibling and lived in exile, mainly in the Chinese territory Macau. At one point considered the heir to his father Kim Jong-il, the elder Kim lost favor after a 2001 escapade to visit Tokyo Disneyland resulted in his capture at a Japanese airport for traveling on a fake passport.Kim Jong-nam advocated reform in North Korea, once telling a Japanese newspaper after his exile had begun that he did not support the succession of his family's dynastic power.Current ruler Kim Jong-un, who assumed power upon his father's death in 2011, has conducted mass purges within official circles. If confirmed, the assassinated Kim's death would be the highest-profile case since the ruling Kim executed his uncle Jang Song-thaek and much of Jang's family in December 2013. The assassinated Kim is believed to have been close to his uncle.High-profile defector Hwang Jang-Yop survived numerous assassination attempts before dying of natural causes at the age of 87. Hwang, who had been one of the leading ideologues of the North's isolationist regime, escaped to South Korea in 1997. Just months before his death in 2010, Seoul authorities arrested two North Korean military officers over one of many plots to kill him.The execution of Kim Jong-Un's uncle Jang Song Thaek, once the second most powerful man in the isolated country, sent shockwaves beyond North Korea's borders. Many media outlets wrongly reported that he was fed to hungry dogs, as punishment for his "betrayal" of the ruling family. In reality, he was shot, according to Pyongyang officials and South Korean intelligence.In 2015, Seoul's security services reported that North Korean Defense Minister Hyon Yong-chol was executed by an anti-aircraft gun. However, National Intelligence Service (NIS) soon appeared to backtrack from the report, saying that Hyon might still be alive. Reports of other brutal executions, involving artillery shells and flamethrowers, have also been difficult to confirm.North Korean defector and well-known dissident Park Sang-hak was also targeted by a Pyongyang-linked hitman. In 2011, South Korean authorities arrested a former North Korean commando over the plot to assassinate Park Sang-hak with a poison-tipped needle.The estranged half-brother of North Korea's leader Kim Jong-Un was reportedly poisoned by two women at a Kuala Lumpur airport. While details remain sketchy, it is widely believed that the killers were sent by the North Korean regime. The 46-year-old Kim Jong-Nam had been living abroad after falling from grace in 2001 for visiting Disneyland in Tokyo.A parody Twitter account spoofing the hermetically-sealed Democratic People's Republic of Korea managed to put a satirical spin on the report of Kim Jong-Nam's death.cmb,dj/rt (Reuters/AFP) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2VbYI