A Republican lawmaker in the U.S. state of Oklahoma gained approval on Tuesday for a bill that would require women to receive written consent from their sexual partner in order to obtain an abortion.The state House Public Health Committee voted in favor of the bill by Oklahoma Rep. Justin Humphrey, despite Humphrey admitting that it might be unconstitutional. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2WPMGThe measure will now move toward a full vote in the state's legislature, where it is likely to pass if granted a hearing.The bill, formally known as HB 1441, states: "No abortion shall be performed in this state without the written informed consent of the father of the fetus."Women would be required to provide the father's identity to their doctor in writing. Additionally, should the man contest that he is the father, he may demand that a paternity test be performed.Humphrey did, however, put in a provision that if the woman's sexual partner is deceased, the woman will be allowed to have an abortion - provided that she signs a notarized affidavit saying that the man is dead.The bill would provide exceptions in cases where the woman is the victim of incest or rape, or if the pregnancy poses a danger to her life.Initial estimates suggest that at least 500,000 participants took to the streets in Washington, DC. March organizers said that the point of the protest was not only to show opposition to newly sworn-in President Trump, but as a general call for the rights of women and other minorities to be respected.Brazilian protesters joined hands in the capital Brasilia. More than 600 solidarity events were held around the world, on every continent including Antarctica, where a group of scientists held their own small demonstration on a research vessel.A family at a march in Frankfurt wore the "pussy hats" that many march participants around the world had for the occassion. The hats were meant as a slight to misogynistic comments President Trump made in 2005 that surfaced during the election campaign.Many slogans at the protests had to do with President Trump's promise to build a wall on the border between the US and Mexico. At a protest in Kenyan capital of Nairobi, supporters demanded equality and tolerance.At least 2,000 people took part in the Paris march. Many demonstrators across Europe said they were not only protesting Trump, but the rise of the far-right across the continent as French elections loom in March.Much has been made of the low turnout numbers at President Trump's inauguration. People took to social media to show empty subway trains in Washington on inauguration day, but transport officials in the US capital said Saturday was the fifth busiest day in the Metro's history.Midtown Manhattan flooded with protestors by Saturday afternoon. With large demonstrations taking place in most major US cities, some academics were already predicting that it would be the largest protest in the country's history.Activists in Mexico City marched towards the US embassy. One of the first of Donald Trump's many campaign statements that sparked controversy was the allegations that most Mexican immigrants to the US were criminals.'You're a host'On Tuesday, Humphrey defended his use of the term "host" to describe pregnant women, saying that there was no other appropriate term for referring to a woman's womb."I think I used the proper verbiage. When I used the term host, it's not meant to degrade women," Humphrey said. "If there's better verbiage out there, I will gladly use better verbiage. I just couldn't find it."In comments published on Monday by online publication "The Intercept," the lawmaker explained that the bill was intended to give men a say in the process of abortion."I understand that they feel like this is their body," he said in the article referring to women. "I feel like it is a separate - what I call them is, is you're a 'host.'""But after you're irresponsible then don't claim, well, I can just go and do this with another body, when you're the host and you invited that in."Humphrey's comments have drawn censure from politicians and activists alike, including the organizers of the Women's March.Tamya Cox, spokeswoman of Planned Parenthood of Great Plains, called Humphrey's comments unacceptable and inflammatory.When asked by a reporter which term she would use instead of "host," Cox responded: "women."Constitutional challengesCox also added that the U.S. Supreme Court previously ruled against requirements to notify the father in its 1992 decision in Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey."Courts have said that states cannot create undue burdens and create unnecessary obstacles when it comes to a woman's right to access abortion," Cox said. "To waste taxpayer dollars on bills like this does not represent what's best for Oklahomans."Oklahoma's bill is the latest in a series of far-reaching efforts to restrict abortion by Republican lawmakers emboldened by U.S. President Donald Trump's election, experts say.Trump's nominee to the Supreme Court, Neil Gorsuch, is known for his pro-life stance. Should he be confirmed, many fear that the constitutional right to abortion could be threatened as the court would then have a majority of conservative justices.Abortion has been legal in the United States since 1973 but remains a divisive social and political issue.rs/kl&nbsp; (AP, Reuters)