The Maritim Hotel in Cologne has been facing a steady stream of criticism for its decision to host the party congress of the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) in April - and the backlash is only growing stronger.On Friday, students at the Technical University of Cologne announced that they had canceled a planned graduation ceremony at Maritim, citing the hotel's decision to host the AfD event as its reason. "We, the students of the economics Faculty, stand for an open, democratic and free society. We want to expressly condemn such racist and inhumane statements as those made by some within the AfD," the students wrote in a press statement. "We therefore condemn the cooperation between the Maritim Hotel company and the AfD."Their announcement came the same week that a group of local artists published a similarly critical statement of the event in the daily K lner Stadt-Anzeiger (KSTA) and Express newspapers. "Cologne stood for, continues to stand for&nbsp;and will always stand for cultural openness, tolerance and, last but not least, charity," the statement read. Among the signatories were such bands as Bl ck F ss, H hner and Brings, who are known for playing music typically associated with the city's world-famous carnival celebration.AfD leaders seen in Berlin in SeptemberSocial media backlashThese recent developments are part of a growing chorus of outrage directed at Maritim over the past several months that&nbsp;has taken the form of everything from angry social media posts to planned protests to alleged threats.The backlash began not long after Maritim signed the contract this past summer to host the event, a two-day gathering beginning on April 22 at which the AfD will set its agenda ahead of the upcoming federal elections. Within months, the hotel's Facebook page was filled with angry comments blasting the company's decision. "Until now the Maritim was associated with carnival events for me, now it's just an accommodation for the AfD," one Facebook user recently wrote. "Maritim - where concerned citizens can still be Nazis," another user commented.The hotel chain's decision to host the event comes after a year of noticeable gains for the AfD, which has ridden a wave of anger at Chancellor Angela Merkel's asylum policies. Yet, even as the party has won over an increasing number of supporters, it has also found itself mired in near-constant controversy. In January, the AfD drew nationwide condemnation after one of its members, Bj rn H cke, described Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and called for "a 180-degree reversal on the politics of remembrance."As a result of the scandal, Maritim, which has cooperated with the AfD for events in the past, reported that H cke is no longer allowed in any of its hotels - including during the party congress in April. But the company has not backtracked on its decision to host the event. "We will hold true to the contract," hotel director Hartmut Korth uer said, according to Welt Online.Bj rn H cke came under fire following comments about the Holocaust'Building will burn'Calls have grown for protests on the two days of the party congress. Among those leading the charge are the anti-racism groups K ln Gegen Rechts (Cologne Against the Right) and Kein Veedel f r Rassismus (No Neighborhood for Racism), which have called for demonstrations against the hotel chain. Some groups have already protested near the hotel.Citing hotel management, German news outlets have also recently reported that some Maritim employees had received death threats, including one incident during which&nbsp;reception workers were apparently&nbsp;warned not to show up on those days as "the whole building will burn." Protest groups and the university students have distanced themselves from any threats leveled at the hotel's employees.The leader of the Alternative for Germany, Frauke Petry, said police could use guns as a last resort to prevent illegal border crossings, pointing out "that's the law." What began as a euroskeptic party has turned into an anti-establishment and anti-EU force, claiming up to 25 percent of votes in German state elections in March 2016 and taking second place in Chancellor Angela Merkel's home state.Many believe Brexit and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential elections could give new impetus to France's National Front. Established in 1972 and now led by Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in 2011, the National Front is a nationalist party that uses populist rhetoric to promote its anti-immigration and anti-EU positions.The leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, is one of Europe's most prominent right-wing politicians. He was convicted in December for asking a crowd in 2014 if they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the country, but no penalty was imposed. His party is considered anti-EU and anti-Islam. It is leading polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections and currently holds 15 seats.Nikos Michaloliakos is the head of Greece's neo-fascist party Golden Dawn. He was arrested in September 2013 along with dozens of other party members and charged with forming a criminal organization. Michaloliakos was released in July 2015. Golden Dawn won 18 seats in parliamentary elections in September 2016. The party holds anti-immigrant views and favors a defense agreement with Russia.Hungary's anti-immigration, populist and economic protectionist party Jobbik aspires to be in the government by 2018. Now Hungary's third-largest party, it won 20 percent of votes in the last elections held in 2014. It wants a referendum on EU membership. Jobbik also advocates criminalizing "sexual deviancy," submitting a bill targeting homosexuals in 2012. Jobbik is headed by Gabor Vona.After Trump's election, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson said in an interview with Swedish TV: "There is a movement in both Europe and the United States where the establishment is being challenged. It is clearly happening here as well." The Sweden Democrats call for restricting immigration, are against allowing Turkey to join the EU and want a referendum on EU membership. Norbert Hofer of Austria's nationalist Freedom Party lost the recent presidential runoff by a mere 30,000 votes, after being front-runner in the first round. Former Green party leader Alexander Van der Bellen won 50.3 percent of the vote, with Hofer gaining 49.7 percent. The Freedom Party's leader campaigns for the strengthening of the country's borders and limiting benefits for immigrants.The leader of the hard-right People's Party - Our Slovakia, Marian Kotleba, has said, "Even one immigrant is one too many." On another occasion, he called NATO a "criminal organization." This Slovak party favors leaving the EU as well as the eurozone. It won 8 percent of the vote in March 2016 elections, securing 14 seats in the country's 150-member parliament.AfD figures, meanwhile, have criticized some of the responses to the party's plans for its congress, while reiterating their determination to go ahead with the event in April. "We condemn all intimidation attempts against employees," an AfD spokesman told DW in an email.&nbsp;"These people only do their jobs and have nothing to do with the political debate we are currently having in Germany. This is cowardly and reveals the anti-democratic and criminal face of left-wing extremism.""The AfD will not be deterred," the spokesman wrote. "On the contrary: We will report all known incidents."In response to the planned protests, as well as any possibility of violence, police said they would deploy more than 3,000 officers around the hotel each day of the event, according to a report in the KSTA.