ZIMBABWEAN motor racing sensation Axcil Jefferies is relishing the opportunity of competing in the prestigious Lamborghini Super Trofeo competition for the first time in his career when it makes its debut in the Middle East with three races scheduled in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) starting this weekend. BY DANIEL NHAKANISOAxcil JefferiesThe 22-year-old Formula One hopeful was on Monday confirmed as one of the two drivers for GDL Team Asia, together with 18-year-old Dutch teenage sensation, Rik Breukers ahead of the opening race to be held at the Yas Marina Circuit in Abu Dhabi from Friday to Saturday.The other two rounds of the Lamborghini Super Trofeo Middle East will be raced at the Autodrome International Circuit in Dubai with the second race scheduled from February 16 to 18 while the third and final round takes place from March 2-4, but with a different circuit layout.Speaking from his base in Abu Dhabi in the UAE yesterday, Jefferies, who is currently the senior racing instructor at the Yas Marina Circuit, said he was confident he would adapt quickly to the Lamborghini Hurac n sports car. I&#8217;m really excited to be back racing again, especially in such a prestigious championship like the Lamborghini Super Trofeo. This is a big change for me, as I have always raced Formula cars, so I am really excited. Although it will be a new and different experience, I am very confident in my ability and I am sure to adapt quickly, Jefferies told NewsDay Sport. The Lamborghini Hurac n is a very powerful beast, pushing out 620 BHP with a top speed of 350 km/h, so I&#8217;m looking forward to fun times again. We realise there are some very experienced and fast drivers in the championship, so we will have our work cut out, but for sure I will be pushing hard as ever. The talented Zimbabwean driver paid tribute to the GDL Racing Team Asia team owner, Italian Gianluca De Lorenzi, for affording him the chance to showcase his talent to a wider audience. I d like to thank GDL and team owner Gianluca De Lorenzi for giving me the opportunity to race with his team. GDL have had some very promising results over the years and I look forward to working with them. I believe I have a very competitive teammate, Rick Breukers, who won the amateur championship last year. This year, he has been promoted to pro, so we are both pro and will be competing in the pro-class competition, he said.Competing in the Lamborghini Super Trofeo adds to Jefferies already glowing CV, which includes past experience in the Formula BMW Pacific Championship, FIA Formula Two Championship, Indy Lights Championship GP2 Series and more recently, the Radical Middle East Cup.Jefferies childhood dream has however, always been to race in the lucrative F1 and he looked well on course until lack of sponsorship threw him off-track a couple of years ago.