Romania's ruling Social Democrats&nbsp;(PSD) government urged an end to mass protests which have continued for more than a week - despite the withdrawal of a controversial decree that would have shielded politicians from prosecution on certain corruption charges. The rallies, however, continued especially in the capital Bucharest, where some 250,000 protesters congregated one week after the original start of the protests and chanted: "We don't believe you, we won't give up." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2X31ZThe PSD government's intended measure to decriminalize official misconduct had resulted in the largest demonstrations in the country since the fall of communism in 1989 - which came barely one month after the current administration had taken office. The new government was eventually forced to back down from the emergency ordinance that would have decriminalized abuse in office if the amount involved was less than 200,000 lei (about $48,500, 44,000 euros).Some of the protestors said that the new government's resignation was the only solution to the crisis. Prime Minister Sorin Grindeanu meanwhile acknowledged that "the act had led to division," signaling a change in direction.Calls for the resignation of the government grew stronger one week after protests against the easing of corruption laws beganJustice minister in crosshairsThe PSD-led government might likely still hold on to plans to introduce another version of the law in parliament, where it has a majority. Justice Minister Florin Iordache told reporters that he would publish the details of a new, alternative bill to change corruption provisions in the criminal code. His own ministry later contradicted him, saying the justice ministry was not planning to draft such a bill. Prime Minister Grindeanu meanwhile also threatened to fire the justice minister.The government had claimed that the easing of corruption laws were design to bring the Romanian criminal code into line with rulings by the Constitutional Court and EU legal directives on legislation. However, the opposition, anti-corruption prosecutors, magistrates and hundreds of thousands of Romanian protesters believe it had been tailored to give amnesty to dozens of politically-affiliated public officials convicted or accused of abuse of office in one of the poorest and most corrupt members of the EU.Romania's Constitutional Court meanwhile is expected to rule on the&nbsp;proposal later in the week.A 'tense state'Social Democrat Party (PSD) leader Liviu Dragnea reiterated his party's support for Prime Minister&nbsp;Grindeanu, saying that his "legitimately elected" government had no reason to resign.The Romanian Parliament may still vote in favor of an amended version of the bill that would ease corruption"As long as this tense state continues in Romania no one has anything to gain," he told reporters. "All the PSD can do is to urge calm. Besides the protesters in the square, there are other Romanians also shouting that their vote must be protected," he said, in reference to his party's big win in a December election.Later in the week, the government faces a no-confidence vote filed by the opposition Liberals and Save Romania Union; however, with the PSD holding a majority in parliament along with its liberal junior partners ALDE the motion against the PSD and party leader Liviu Dragnea is considered to be symbolic at best. Meanwhile, the government's decision to withdraw the decree on corruption will require the approval of the PSD/ALDE-majority parliament.Come-back kid Dragnea?The quiet power struggle between Prime Minister Grindeanu and PSD Party Leader Dragnea is now being played out on Bucharest's streetsDragnea, the major power-broker in the government,&nbsp;also announced&nbsp;that he was still hoping to govern the country himself. Dragnea had been banned from being prime minister because of a conviction in April 2016 for vote rigging. However, the 54-year-old revealed&nbsp;he was now seeking to have the guilty verdict overturned on a technicality.Dragnea said that the court had failed to send him the verdict against him in print within the legally binding 30-day deadline, adding that he had petitioned for the annulment of the final ruling.If the petition were to succeed, Dragnea's two-year suspended sentence would be erased from his criminal records, clearing the way for him to become prime minister.&nbsp;Romanian law bars people with criminal convictions from assuming government posts.On Saturday, the Romanian government bowed to protesters' demands, saying it would repeal legislation decriminalizing certain forms of corruption, but demonstrators said the move is not enough. "Now we re asking for the government to resign," Mihai Oprica, 31, an IT manager pictured above. "[These protests] can stop if they cooperate. If not, we will continue coming out every day."Since the controversial decree was passed on Tuesday, more than 300,000 people have demonstrated nightly in cities across the country, with 150,000 gathering in Bucharest s Victoria Plaza, shown above. Protesters chanted "We woke up" through the evening and many expected the largest demonstration yet to take place here on Sunday night, when citizens from rural areas will come to Bucharest."No way, no escape," reads a sign in Victoria Plaza. "Even if they cancel the decree, how do we know they won t try to pass another one next month?" asked Dan, 36, a state employee. "We have no trust in the government and they should understand that there [are] enough honest citizens that will make sure the law is followed."On Saturday, tens of thousands marched to Romania's parliament building to create a human chain around the complex, which has a perimeter of about three kilometers. One of the protesters on site, Christian Nadu, 32, a corporate project manager, said, "By surrounding the Parliament, we are making a statement that this is our house, not theirs, and we re taking over."The one-month old cabinet of Romania s Social Democrat party (PSD) sparked the revolt Tuesday, by passing legislation that made official misconduct punishable by prison time only when financial damages exceed 200,000 lei (44,000 euros.) The measure would have ended the ongoing trial of PSD party leader Liviu Dragnea, who is convicted of electoral fraud, and was largely seen as a self-pardon.Sorin Taban, 53, a technical manager from Bucharest, holds a sign reading, '1: Cancel Ordinance. 2: Go home.' He said he would not be satisfied until the PSD cabinet resigns. "The people have so little while politicians have big mansions with swimming pools and billions of euros in foreign banks. This kind of old communist leadership must go home forever!"The ongoing anti-corruption protests are the largest demonstrations in Romania since 1989. "Before this, people didn t go out to protest because they thought they couldn't change anything," Nadu said. "This is the media's fault. The state channels have always suppressed big movements. Now the Romanian people know they have power and they will not forget this."Florin Luca, 31, a telecom project manager (not pictured above) said the end goal for protesters should be installing an independent judiciary. "The government was trying to shut the mouth and break the arms of justice and we would lose everything we built over the last ten years. We need a judicial system that stands independent of political parties." Author: Diego Cupolo ss/rt&nbsp;(AP, Reuters, dpa)