Members of the Spanish anti-establishment party Podemos on Sunday re-elected its founder&nbsp;Pablo Iglesias as Podemos' secretary-general at the party's congress, Vistalegre II, in Madrid.Simmering divisions over the future of Spain's left-wing Podemos will come to a head at this weekend's party congress. The split pits hard-line leftists against pragmatists. (11.02.2017) PSOE s internal and external tensions won t go away with the end of the deadlock. Dissident MPs and left-wing competition herald a difficult period for the Socialists. Santiago S ez reports from Madrid. (24.10.2016) Thousands took to the streets of Madrid to mark the fifth anniversary of a protest that created Podemos, now Spain's third-most popular political party. The "Indignados" movement has left its mark on Spanish politics. (16.05.2016) Spanish anti-austerity party Podemos has joined forces with the communist United Left. The alliance could place second in polls and pose a grave threat to the once-powerful Socialists. Santiago Saez reports from Madrid. (11.05.2016) Spain's upstart leftist party drew tens of thousands of supporters to central Madrid on Saturday. In just one year, it has gone from nothing to a serious contender in the upcoming vote. Guy Hedgecoe reports from Madrid. (31.01.2015) He will head the leadership council of the party, which currently sits third in the Spanish National Congress.Iglesias defeated rival candidate Juan Moreno Yag e, &nbsp;gaining 89 percent of around 155,000 votes. The election was open to Podemos' 450,000 members. Iglesias'&nbsp;political document outlining party strategy also received a majority of votes.The results are seen as a decisive victory for Iglesias over his political secretary and rival Inigo&nbsp;Errejon, who had advocated taking the party in a more mainstream direction.The results will also reshape the composition of the party's leadership council, which will now&nbsp;include 37 advisers for Iglesias and 23 for Errejon. Two&nbsp;advisers will go to the anticapitalist sector.Previous to the vote,&nbsp;the division between Errejon and Iglesias supporters had been roughly equal. However, Sunday's results indicate that 59.85 percent&nbsp;voted for&nbsp;the council list&nbsp;of hardline leftist Iglesias in comparison to the 37.10 percent&nbsp;who supported the list of the more moderately inclined Errejon.What remains unknown is whether the across-the-board votes in favor of Iglesias will put to end the political infighting that has roiled Podemos.cmb/tj (EFE, dpa)