Television journalist and director Nicola Graef accompanied the world-renowned painter Neo Rauch for three years with her film camera and microphone&nbsp;to make the film "Neo Rauch - Gef hrten und Begleiter"&nbsp;(loosely translated as "Neo Rauch - Comrade and Companion").&nbsp;What she discovered was an extremely modest person who goes to his studio every day at the same time, just like a laborer punching the clock. "Nothing whizzes past him," Graef said in an interview with DW. "You notice that in the way he works. He is a very concentrated person who completely focuses on things."It doesn't bother him when someone watches him work. He has none of the airs some artists have, none of the vanities. Only when he can't move a heavy canvas will Rauch show his irritation on camera, but it's short-lived. There's an&nbsp;admirable&nbsp;calm about him - and does not allow himself to be deterred, loyal to&nbsp;his typical style of socialist realism of the Leipzig School.A foreign worldHis large-scale canvases are inhabited by enigmatic characters, eerie scenes and dark fantasy-like figures. He paints what's in his head, further develops his idiosyncratic style, goes through phases of employing different colors, stoically and unwaveringly.Rauch's images are enigmatic and unusualCollectors from around the world vie with each other to buy his paintings, and his exhibitions are usually sold-out events. That disconcerts Rauch, and that's also what makes him so unbelievably likeable, said Graef.The whole pictureNeo Rauch as a person takes center stage in Graef's documentary: as a painter, an artist colleague, a father, the husband of successful painter Rosa Loy, as a friend of Harry Lybke, the gallery owner who represents him, and as a friendly conversation partner to collectors and other art lovers.The film takes us on an amazing journey of discovery: What characterizes this unique global phenomenon that is Neo Rauch? What are the artistic roots of his unconventional painting? Why is he so calm and collected, despite his international fame? For the first time in years, Rauch speaks in front of the camera about these topics, but also about the wounds and emotional chasms that have preoccupied him all his life.Filling the voidNeo Rauch was born on April 18, 1960 in Leipzig. He grew up with his grandparents, after losing his parents in a tragic train accident when he was just four weeks old. "He has felt that void his entire life," Graef noted. "Since he is such an extremely sensitive person, all of that emotion is laid bare. And you can see that in his pictures."The artist studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in his hometown of Leipzig, and the school became his artistic homeland. As of 1986, he was a master student under and later assistant to Arno Rink. Those experiences had a profound effect on the young student.Rauch with his wife Rosa Loy, also a painter, in front of his work "Kalimuna"His apocalyptically inhabited works made a fast splash in the art world and, early on in his career, were shown at major museums in Basel, Maastricht, Munich and New York. He became famous quickly, his pictures taking their place in private and public collections.From 2005 to 2009, he was a professor at the Academy of Fine Arts in Leipzig. That was an important part of his life that meant a lot to him, noted Graef.&nbsp;His own cosmosAs a painter, Rauch maintains the down-to-earth manner typical of eastern Germany and stays loyal to his style, his friends and his hometown - and to gallery owner, Harry Lybke, who has represented him all these years. All of them accept him the way he wants to be."He is someone who permeates everything. That's why he's in his own cosmos - in himself, in his painting, in his studio," said director Graef, reflecting on filming with the artist. "That's why you sometimes get the feeling that he's not of this world. But maybe that's also why his pictures are so powerful."Her documentary gives viewers a glimpse into the world of thought behind Neo Rauch's pictures. It's a strong film, its images shot with sensitivity and arranged in an entertaining manner. It hits movie theaters on March 2, 2017.The gallery below revisits some of the most important artists of the Leipzig&nbsp;School.Neo Rauch, 55, is regarded as one of the most important contemporary German painters. His large-format works and graphics have a surreal feel, a trademark of the Leipzig-born artist's style.Rauch's paintings conquered the art market in the 1990s. Gerd Harry Lybke (pictured here with Rauch), the Leipzig art dealer who signed Rauch and other artists after reunification, was an important mediator for the new movement. Lybke has a colorful history: his gallery was under observation by the East German secret Police: the much feared Stasi.After the fall of the Berlin Wall, Leipzig became a center for contemporary art once again. Neo Rauch was actually the movement's only native East German, while Tim Eitel, Rosa Loy and David Schnell (pictured) were West German. The name stuck, however, and New Leipzig School works became immensely popular.Tim Eitel's figurative paintings hang in many private collections around the world. His connection with the New Leipzig School helped him to fame. Often based on newspaper clippings or photographs, his works comment on our society.Arno Rink,75, studied at the Leipzig Academy for Visual Arts, and he also taught at the academy in the early 1970s. His early works are influenced by Picasso, Dix and Beckmann, and many echo mythical themes. Rink is the link between East Germany's Leipzig School and today's New Leipzig School.In terms of a specific genre, the Leipzig School didn't really exist. The name evolved when several painters from Leipzig - Bernhard Heisig (pictured), Wolfgang Mattheuer and Werner T bke - were invited to the documenta 6 exhibition in 1977. These artists had increasingly moved away from State-sanctioned art and socialist realism from the 1960s.The trio was labeled the "artistic miracle" of the East. Werner T bke - regarded as a Traditionalist and a critical realist - was famous in East Germany for numerous large scale wall paintings. His works disappeared after reunification.Wolfgang Mattheuer used strong images from ancient mythology in his works, that often focused on the fears and desires harbored by his fellow East Germans. Like the other Leipzig painters, Mattheuer wouldn't be silenced by East German authorities. The artists also didn't want to belong to a "School," and refused the label Leipzig School. Author: Sabine Oelze / db