EU Commission President Juncker is being blamed for many of the bloc's woes: waning interest in Europe, far-right populism and - recently - the Brexit. But how far is he really to blame? Barbara Wesel from Brussels. (11.07.2016) This week, Theresa May's government presented a 'White Paper' about its plans for Brexit. But the prime minister is not admitting how difficult negotiations with the EU could really be, says Birgit Maass. (05.02.2017) After his European People's Party's election win, Luxembourg's Jean-Claude Juncker will be the European Commission's new president. But what will he stand for as new head of the European Union's most powerful body? (15.07.2014) Jean-Claude Juncker has used his State of the Union speech to attack populism and urge unity within the EU. He also outlined an agenda for the future of the bloc for the first time since the UK Brexit referendum. (14.09.2016) European Commission President&nbsp;Jean-Claude Juncker&nbsp;revealed Saturday that he will not run for a second term.Speaking to German public radio Deutschlandfunk&nbsp;in an interview to be aired on Sunday, Juncker said he would "not stand again" to head the EU's executive branch. His current term expires in November 2019.Looking back at the last 2014 election, Juncker said the process made him "fall in love with Europe again, as I rediscovered the EU's richness of colors.""But there will be no such second election," Juncker said, "as I will not be competing again." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1K1fWThe former prime minister and finance minister of Luxembourg is widely considered one of the most experienced EU politicians. During his tenure as Luxembourg PM, Juncker also headed the Eurogroup of eurozone finance ministers from 2005 to 2013. He was one of the chief negotiators for Greece's multibillion-euro aid packages when the country was facing imminent bankruptcy.Concerns over EU unityIn the same interview, Juncker also voiced doubts over whether the EU's remaining 27 members would be able to maintain a united front during the Brexit negotiations, as well as when Britain&nbsp;leaves the bloc."The other EU 27 don't know it yet, but the Brits know very well how they can tackle this," Juncker told the broadcaster.&nbsp;"They could promise country A this, country B that and country C something else and the end game is that there is not a united European front."The president of the European Commission also ruled out Britain negotiating its own trade deals as long as it was a member of the EU.dm/jlw&nbsp;(AFP, Reuters) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1K1x6