TOP Zimbabwean motor racing driver, Axcil Jefferies romped to victory in race two of Lamborghini Super Trofeo Middle East at the Yas Marina Circuit in Abu Dhabi on Saturday. BY DANIEL NHAKANISOAxcil JefferiesJefferies (22) and GDL Team Asia teammate, 18-year-old Rik Breukers from the Netherlands, put on a near faultless, spectacular display throughout the weekend, in their Lamborghini Hurac n, which was rewarded with a superb victory.The pair s only blemish of the weekend came in the opening race of Friday when Jefferies made contact with Myszkowski-Lewandowski of the team GT3 Poland at the first corner, which put an end to double ambitions of the young drivers.Jefferies and his teammate had looked on course to win the opening race, after setting the fastest pace during qualifying to start from the pole position.All the disappointment of the opening race was soon forgotten following the win in the second race ahead of the FFF Racing Team comprising of American Richard Goddard and Carrie Schreiner.In an interview with NewsDaySport from Abu Dhabi yesterday, Jefferies said he was delighted to make a winning debut in the Lamborghini Super Trofeo Middle East, which will feature two more races in Dubai later this month. It was such a good feeling to be back racing again and at such a high level. Above all it was great to be back to our winning ways. From the first practice all the way through the weekend we dominated. There was obviously a lot to learn as it was our first time racing in GT cars and my first time racing with a team mate, but we managed to get up to speed pretty quickly, he said. Obviously the first race was very disappointing. I started from pole, had an amazing start and then got wiped out at the first corner by another driver who missed his braking mark. That took us out of race one, and even though officials penalised the other driver it made no difference to our race. So, for race two on Saturday, my teammate and I went into the race with one goal only. For race two my teammate started, he did an awesome first stint and when he came in to do our driver change we were P1! From then on I put my head down, had really strong and consistent pace and managed we win the race by over 28 seconds! I d like to thank my team mate, team, friends and family for all the support this past weekend. Our focus has already shifted to the next event which will be this coming weekend in Dubai, Jefferies said.