Romania's political crisis deepened on Friday as the country's ombudsman appealed to the Constitutional Court to overturn a government decree that decriminalizes some corruption offenses - a move that has sparked the country's largest mass protests since the antigovernment revolt in 1989 that brought down a communist dictator.Some 200,000-250,000 protested nationwide, according to local media, in a fourth night of demonstrations against the government decree.The decree calls for decriminalizing abuse-of-power offenses in which sums are below 200,000 lei ($48,000). It also narrows the definition of conflict of interest, now making it legal for a public official to favor a business partner when deciding who should win a contract."In the case of abuse of power, public procurement contracts could be split into smaller sums and awarded separately," said Livia Saplacan, spokeswoman for Romania's anti-corruption prosecution unit, the DNA. "Until the decree, this was a very clear crime to investigate."Demonstraters joined several rallies in the capital Bucharest to protest against the government for decriminalizing certain corruption offences. The country's left-wing government adopted an emergency law to make abuse of power punishable only when it concerns sums that exceed 200,000 lei (44,000 euros)Protesters set fire to street signs during scuffles with police. The government claims the new laws were necessary to bring the eastern European country's criminal code in line with recent constitutional court rulings.Protesters say the proposed changes would be a blow to anti-corruption drives in Romania that have been ongoing for several years. Some demonstrators hurled bottles, firecrackers and stones at security forces, who responded by firing tear gas.Hundreds of thousands of protesters braved freezing temperatures in cities across the country. President Klaus Iohanis called the adoption of the law "a day of mourning for the rule of law ... which has received a grave blow from the enemies of justice."Four police and two demonstrators sustained minor injuries after protests turned violent in front of the Romanian parliament, police said. Twenty protesters were arrested and a number of Molotov cocktails were seized, according to a police statement. Between 200,000 and 300,000 demonstrators were reported to have turned out. Many shouted "Thieves!" and called on the government to step down in the light of the emergency decree. Author: Nadine Berghausen In the courtsGeneral Prosecutor Augustin Lazar welcomed the appeal filed Friday by Ombudsman Victor Ciorbea with the Constitutional Court, and Lazar said his office has its own case before the Court of Appeals (CA).Experts said the CA itself could suspend enforcement of the decree as it can rule on the legality of such measures. The decree is due to take effect in a little more than a week."I think there is some sort of understanding that the government will not withdraw its decree and the Constitutional Court will reject at least parts of it, including the contested abuse-of-office article," said Sergiu Miscoiu, professor of political science at the Babes-Bolyai University.&nbsp;"We are outside any constitutional framework."The government has rejected calls to rescind the decree, but cracks in Cabinet unity appeared on Thursday with the resignation of a minister and a call from the vice president of the ruling Social Democrats to withdraw the decree. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2WtZLToppling of CeausescuNearly 30 years ago mass protests brought down the regime of Nicolae Ceausescu as a wave of anti-communism swept across Eastern Europe in 1989. Petty bribery was a way of life under the regime. Ceausescu and wife, Elena, were executed by firing squad shortly after being overthrown.The latest government order has triggered some of the largest demonstrations in Romania since communism was overthrown.Mirela Motatu, a 45-year-old dressmaker who joined Thursday's protest in Bucharest, said she had been spooked by the decree, which bypassed parliamentary debate."If they can issue a law overnight, they can do it again," she said. "We went to bed in 2017 and woke up in 1989."&nbsp;bik/sms (Reuters, AP, AFP)