Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau hailed the European Union as a bastion of international partnership&nbsp;on Thursday. In a speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg, Trudeau made it clear that Canada sought to distance itself from the protectionism promoted&nbsp;by US President Donald Trump and post-Brexit vote Britain.The deal will cut 99 percent of tariffs between the two sides but opponents say it gives corporations too much power over domestic regulation. Several hundred people protested in Strasbourg outside parliament. (15.02.2017) Belgium has signed a controversial trade deal between the EU and Canada, two days after a Belgian region refused to endorse the pact. The signing summit - originally slated for Thursday - is now expected this weekend. (29.10.2016) Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau arrived in Washington DC Monday and met with US President Donald Trump. The two leaders were to discuss free trade and, potentially, immigration. (13.02.2017) "You are a vital player in addressing the challenges that we collectively face as an international community," he told lawmakers. "Indeed, the whole world benefits from a strong EU."The prime minister then called on the EU and Canada to take center stage in the global economy: "We know that, in these times, we must choose to lead the international economy, not simply be subject to its whims."&nbsp;"Canada knows that an effective European voice on the global stage isn't just preferable, it's essential," he added, calling the bloc a "truly remarkable achievement and unprecedented model for peaceful cooperation."Trudeau: CETA 'blueprint' for futureTrudeau's talk came just one day after the European Union backed a controversial free-trade deal with Canada, commonly known as CETA. Not only does the move show a stark contrast to the policies of President Trump, who withdrew from the proposed trans-Pacific free trade deal TTP, it illustrates Canada's drive to pivot away from complete reliance on trade with its neighbor to the south.CETA was not without its detractors, however, who have argued for years that it promotes business interests to the detriment of farmers and workers. In the fall, the government of the Belgian region of Wallonia also held up ratification proceedings claiming it was hardly given any time to read the agreement and work out the ramifications for its inhabitants.Trudeau, however, praised the agreement as a "blueprint for all ambitious, future trade deals," once it proves to be sucessful. He added that it will "make the lives of our citizens more affordable."The Canadian leader gave his speech fresh from&nbsp;a trip to Washington, where he and President Trump attempted to bridge their many differences, even as Trump threatens to scrap the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).es/rt (AFP, Reuters) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2Xcn4