"Islamic State" (IS) fighter Khaled Sharrouf has been&nbsp;stripped of his Australian citizenship, the "Weekend Australian" newspaper reported on Saturday. He is&nbsp;the first person to have his dual citizenship revoked under a law introduced by Canberra in 2015.Australia's parliament has passed a law to strip dual nationals of their citizenship for terrorism-related offenses. An estimated 110 Australians are believed to be fighting with the "Islamic State" (IS). (04.12.2015) The legislation has provided authorities with the ability to hold convicted terrorists beyond their prison sentences. But opposition lawmakers criticized the new law, saying it undermines the country's civil liberties. (01.12.2016) Although the "Islamic State" (IS) group has been driven from the eastern half of Mosul, their influence is still keenly felt within the Sunni community. Judit Neurink reports from Khazir Camp. (11.02.2017) Sharrouf, the&nbsp;son of Lebanese immigrants, left Australia for Syria in late 2013 in order to join the jihadist group&nbsp;and became known for his involvement in the beheadings of government officials. In 2014, photos emerged online of the 35-year-old&nbsp;and his then 7-year-old son holding the severed heads of Syrian soldiers.According to the "Weekend Australian," Immigration Minister Peter Dutton declared Sharrouf's citizenship invalid earlier this year at the recommendation of&nbsp;the Citizenship Loss Board, a secret panel of intelligence officers, police, bureaucrats and lawyers.&nbsp;More than 100 fightersThe Australian Immigration Department confirmed only that an individual involved in terrorism overseas had been stripped of citizenship, but did not reveal any further information about the person.In 2015, Australia passed an anti-terror law that allows the country to cancel people's citizenship if they are dual nationals and if they are involved with a terrorist group. The government says the policy is meant to protect the country from homegrown militants returning from fighting for&nbsp;IS&nbsp;or other terror groups. It does not apply to individuals who have only&nbsp;Australian citizenship, as no one can be made stateless under the law.More than 100 Australians are currently fighting for IS.&nbsp;About half of them are estimated to&nbsp;have dual citizenship.mb/tj (dpa, Reuters)