ORGANISERS of the Surrey Braai Fest, scheduled for this weekend in Marondera, have added a jazzy touch to the line-up made up of contemporary musician, Jah Prayzah and sungura giants, Pengaudzoke, after securing the signature of fast-rising Afro-jazz musician, Calvin Mtukudzi. BY JAIROS SAUNYAMAAfro-jazz musician Calvin MtukudziMtukudzi, who is based in Marondera, told NewsDay yesterday that he was out to prove his mettle, as he would be Jah Prayzah s curtain raiser at the show, which is expected to attract over a thousand music fans.The musician described the opportunity as a milestone in his career. I am very excited because this will be my first time to perform with big musicians like him (Jah Prayzah) and I am happy again that my name is spreading nationwide. To my fans and those attending the gig, I promise the best show ever, he said.The event, to be held at the Surrey Braai Area, will see entertainment lovers receiving braai packs at the entrance after parting with $5. Surrey Group national sales manager, Ranganayi Zihumo, who is co-ordinating the event, said all was set for the big fest and that they had secured tents in case of rains. We are more than ready. All is in place and we are just waiting for the day. We have pitched tents in case of rains, he said. There is going to be refrigerated trucks of meat at the venue, so that there will be a constant supply. This will be the second time the top meat-processing company is hosting a braai fest, following another held in December last year.The company last year launched an open-air braai place at the 64km peg along the Harare-Mutare Highway, which has since become popular with travellers, as well as entertainment lovers.According to Surrey, the braai fest will be held after every two months. We learnt a lot at the launch and we have improved a lot this time for the best of our patrons. As a leading abattoir, the patrons are assured of abundant meat, Zihumo said.The debut braai fest held last year was headlined by Alick Macheso and over 2 000 people attended.