"This is our promised land. It belongs to us. It is a very difficult day," said Meir, a young Israeli, leaning out of a window of a mobile home in the settlement outpost of Amona. Behind him, a group of young men are busy preparing for the police to enter the house at any moment. Like Meir, most of them came to Amona in recent weeks to support the 42 settler families living on this hilltop and to protest their court-ordered eviction."We don't see how a Jew can take another Jew away from this land," said Meir, who didn't want to be further identified. In the freezing cold, the mostly young protesters had barricaded themselves inside mobile homes. By midday, different police units, without heavy riot gear, were slowly moving into the outpost. The main street leading up to the hilltop settlement was covered in slippery oil and nails, apparently to keep the security forces away. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2Wp4pAn eviction order was issued on Tuesday, calling on the residents to leave within 48 hours. "Shame on you," protesters shouted at the officers, while others pleaded with them to ignore the orders. In other places, scuffles broke out. Protesters had put up barricades with rocks and old chairs, tires burned and stones were thrown at the security forces. "We have 3,000 police officers involved in the area. All the units have been preparing for weeks for this operation," Micky Rosenfeld, press spokesman for the Israeli police, told DW. "We are working carefully and cautiously to make sure the area is evacuated based on the court order that was made." In 2006, when nine homes in Amona were demolished, hundreds of protesters and police were hurt in fierce clashes.Settlers set up roadblocks in an attempt to prevent their evictionAmona a longstanding legal battleThe demolition of Amona has been in the making for over a decade. In 2014, Israel's Supreme Court ruled that Amona was built on private Palestinian land. Palestinian landowners from neighboring villages had petitioned the High Court to claim their land. In Silwad, some of the Palestinian landowners were looking forward to this day. But the question remains whether they can actually return. "It was a difficult day for everybody," says Gilad Grossman, spokesman of Yesh Din, the Israeli human rights group representing them in court. "But when we filed the petition in 2008, our goal was to let them return to their land and we hope that this will now happen."Amona is one of the largest of about 100 "unauthorized" settlement outposts in the occupied West Bank. Outposts are built without permission, but usually tolerated by the government. Most of the international community considers the Jewish settlements in the West Bank to be illegal and an obstacle to peace. With the first eviction deadline approaching on December 25 last year, the government announced it had reached a deal with the residents and promised that 24 families could move to a plot nearby. Others would be hosted in the nearby settlement of Ofra. In return, the families pledged to leave peacefully. However, the move to an adjacent plot was again challenged by Yesh Din. Palestinians claimed ownership of this plot as well. On Wednesday evening, the High Court accepted the petition, effectively cancelling the agreement.An Israeli settler stands next to a pile of burning furnitureGovernment vow more settlement buildingAmona has proved to be a big challenge to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his right-wing coalition government. In an apparent move to appease the angry settler community, the government announced plans late Tuesday to build 3,000 more settler homes in the occupied West Bank. In addition, the so-called "Legalization Bill," which was sponsored by the ultra-nationalist Jewish Home party, might also be up for a vote in the Knesset next week. The highly controversial bill could retroactively legalize outposts like Amona, although it is likely that the High Court might strike it down. Throughout the day, right wing politicians called it a "difficult day" and vowed more settlement building in return.But the political promises did not seem to temper the anger among residents and protesters. "Everybody who came here wants to stress the deep connection between the people of Israel and this land," says Zvi Sukkot, who said he coordinated the protesters. The 26-year old said most people were deeply disappointed with the government. "We are here to protest loudly because the Israeli government is destroying a Jewish community in the land of Israel."The sentiment of betrayal was echoed by others in the outpost. By the evening, over half of the 42 families were evacuated, according to the police, some by force, while others left voluntarily. Dozens of police and protesters sustained light injuries. In Amona, the settlers remained defiant. "We just want to tell the world it won't be easy for you," said one of the protesters. "Next time, don't do it. Think again before you do it."United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem