Israeli officials were responding to reports that ex-Peruvian President Alexjandro Toledo had boarded a flight to Tel Aviv from the United States.The US has informed Peru that it will not prevent former President Alejandro Toledo from flying to Israel. The former leader is wanted over alleged money laundering and influence peddling. (12.02.2017) Officials say former President Alejandro Toledo, wanted in a regionwide graft scandal, may be in the US or Israel. The onetime anti-corruption crusader could face a lengthy jail sentence if extradited. (11.02.2017) Panama's President Juan Carlos Varela has been accused by a former advisor of taking "donations" from Odebrecht. The Brazilian construction concern recently admitted paying bribes in 12 mostly Latin American countries. (10.02.2017) Peru's attorney general is seeking the arrest of former President Alejandro Toledo on charges of laundering of assets and influence trafficking. Toledo is believed to be in Paris, France. (08.02.2017) "Toledo will be allowed in Israel only when his affairs in Peru are settled," Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Emmanuel Nahshon said in a statement on Sunday.The former leader, whose wife, Eliane Karp, has Israeli citizenship, is thought to be considering fleeing to the Middle Eastern&nbsp;state to avoid arrest in his homeland, officials have said.In a phone call on Sunday, Peru's current president, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, urged the United States&nbsp;to consider sending Toledo back to Peru.The state news agency reported that "President Kuczynski has asked Donald Trump to evaluate ... with the State Department the idea of sending Toledo back to Peru."&nbsp;Bribery allegationsAn international manhunt was launched for the 70-year-old&nbsp;Toledo&nbsp;after a judge ordered his arrest over accusations that he took $20 million (18.8 million euros) in bribes.Toledo is alleged to have accepted the cash&nbsp;from Brazil's family-run conglomerate Odebrecht&nbsp;to help the company win a contract to build a highway from Brazil to Peru's Pacific Coastline.In a plea agreement with the US Justice Department last year, Odebrecht admitted&nbsp;to paying some $800 million in bribes to politicians throughout Latin America, including $29 million during the 2001-2006 governments of Toledo and his two successors. Toledo, a one-time anti-corruption champion, was president of Peru from 2001-6Paris, US then Israel?Toledo, who was last believed to be in Paris a week ago, has denied any wrongdoing. But he has been unable to account for receiving such a large sum.He told authorities it was a loan from his mother-in-law that came from compensation she received as a Holocaust survivor, but that claim has been discounted.Peru's government said it now had information that the ex-president was in San Francisco and could try to flee to Israel, which does not have an extradition treaty with the South American state.US authorities said they would not bar Toledo from leaving for Israel. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2UjUGmm/jlw (AFP, AP, dpa)