The comments came ahead of US President Donald Trump's meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday at the White House.Trump supports peace between Israelis and Palestinians, even if the peace deal does not come in the form of a two-state solution, a White House official said on Tuesday.The senior official said the US will no longer attempt to "dictate" the terms of any future peace agreement, but would support what the two sides agree together.United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem "Whether that comes in the form of a two-state solution if that's what the parties want, or something else," the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.&nbsp;The official said Netanyahu and Trump&nbsp;were likely to discuss the expansion of Israeli settlements and potentially moving the US embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.In response on Wednesday,&nbsp;Husam Zomlot, an adviser to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, expressed surprise that a peace deal may not come in the form of a two-state solution. The "two-state solution is not something we just came up with," he remarked.The White House official said rebooting the Middle East peace process was&nbsp;a high priority and that he hoped&nbsp;to bring Israelis and Palestinians together soon. Trump has also given his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, the task of negotiating a peace deal.Break with policyShould Trump fail to explicitly back a two-state solution to the conflict, it would upend decades of US policy embraced by both Republican and Democratic presidential administrations.The policy is also at the core of international peace efforts to resolve the long-running Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Weakened support for eventual Palestinian statehood could also upset Muslim-majority countries, including Sunni Arab allies.Netanyahu won re-election in 2015 by insisting he would not accept the creation of a Palestinian state, a promise that substantially strained relations with the President Barack Obama's administration.In an interview with DW, Nora M ller, a Middle East expert with the Berlin-based non-profit K rber Foundation, warned about jumping to conclusions based on Trump's rhetoric:"I would be cautious about whether the Trump administration could really follow through with a departure from the two-state solution," said M ller.She pointed out the difference between some things Trump said on the campaign trail and the reality of what he could actually do.M ller characterized the move as a "welcome gift for Netanyahu," who had a tense relationship with the Obama administration over the expansion of Israeli settlements on Palestinian land.rs/rc,jm &nbsp; &nbsp;(AP, AFP, Reuters)