On Monday, the UN reported that civilian casualties in Afghanistan rose to a record level in 2016, including a "disproportionate" increase in child victims.Of the 11,418 noncombatants injured or killed, 3,512 were children, the UN reported.According to the report from the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), this included 923 deaths and 2,589 injuries."Children have been killed, blinded, crippled - or inadvertently caused the death of their friends - while playing with unexploded ordnance that is negligently left behind by parties to the conflict," said&nbsp;Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.Deadly landminesThe leading cause of civilian casualties was ground conflict between militants and Afghan forces, followed by homemade mines. The Taliban has taken to planting improvised landmines all over the country in order to stop the advance of government soldiers. However, most of the victims of the devices have been children.US and Afghan airstrikes were also a major cause of child death and injuries, according to the report.Overall, civilian injuries rose by 6 percent over the previous year. The number of women hit&nbsp;by the violence was down, however, by 2 percent. Three hundred and forty-one&nbsp;women were killed and 877 injured, UNAMA wrote, mostly at the hands of militant forces."Anti-government elements continued to subject women to punishments imposed through parallel justice structures," the report read. Altogether, these "anti-government elements," mostly the Taliban, were responsible for 61 percent of casualties.The report also concluded that there was the chance of "underreporting" because of the&nbsp;lack of access to certain parts of the country where the security situation is the most dire.Snow and ice have taken over in Afghanistan, with plains, forests and hills all transformed under a layer of brilliant whiteness. The capital, Kabul, is one of the regions changed into a winter landscape, its trees stretching branches clad in silvery raiment.The temperatures outside makes the warmth of a heated home seem tempting. These internally displaced Afghan girls are staying close to the stove, but still seem cold.Traveling by car has become quite an adventure, with snow wreaking havoc on traffic on a number of major roads. Even here, on the outskirts of the capital, Kabul, conditions for driving are perilous.The inclement weather has caused problems across much of the country. But snow has its positive side as well, as these young men can confirm.The poor security situation in many areas of Afghanistan has displaced thousands of people. They are among those to suffer most under the cold conditions, like this child in Kabul.The cold weather seems not to worry these students. They still gave a display of wushu on a hilltop in Kabul.Snow has fallen in huge quantities, with the government even declaring a public holiday because of the inconvenience. This gives people time to clear roofs so they do not collapse under the weight.These donkeys stand patiently in the snow while their owner fills a container with rainwater. They may be pleased that they have be given coats in addition to their natural protection.Another pleasure of snow is undoubtedly building snowmen. And this one standing near Qargha Lake on the outskirts of Kabul towers over its creators.Travel by any means has been made difficult by the weather. This man pushing his heavily loaded bike seems to feel that two wheels are inadequate on the slippery roads.This intrepid vegetable seller has not let himself be put off by the weather. But his customers seem understandably to prefer to remain indoors.es/tj (AFP, dpa)