German Chancellor Angela Merkel is seen in the caricature holding&nbsp;a bloody knife in one hand and the separated head of the new leader of the Social Democrat Party (SPD) Martin Schulz in the other&nbsp;on the cover of this week's German edition of "Charlie Hebdo."The tagline reads: "Spiegel readers out of control" (Spiegel-Leser ausser Rand und Band).The editor-in-chief of the weekly "Der Spiegel" news magazine this week defended his magazine's front cover illustration of US President Donald Trump holding the severed head of the Statue of Liberty after widespread condemnation in the German and wider media.With most Germans seeing the US as nearly as big a threat as Russia since Trump took office, Der Spiegel's front page illustration perhaps sums up the pulse of many in Germany, depicting the new US president carrying a knife in one hand and holding the decapitated head of the Statue of Liberty, the ultimate symbol of freedom, in the other. It was drawn by Cuban-born artist Edel Rodriguez.The New Yorker magazine has made no secret of its dislike of Trump's election victory. The US weekly stays with the Statue of Liberty theme, illustrating just the arm of the Roman goddess of Libertas - who is carrying a torch that is said to light the way to freedom - only the torch has been extinguished. The illustration is entitled "Liberty's flameout" by artist John W. Tomac. The Economist front cover underscores its coverage of Trump's first days in office. The British weekly described how the real estate magnate had already "lobbed the first Molotov cocktail of policies and executive orders against the capital's brilliant-white porticos." It warned that the world "should prepare for trouble" now that there's an insurgent in the White House.Opting for a photo of Trump's chief strategist along with the headline "The Great Manipulator," Time magazine asks whether Steve Bannon is the second most powerful man in America, pointing to his "mind-meld with Trump." The US weekly said the two are both "talkative and brash, pugnacious money magnets who never quite fit among the elite."French daily Liberation turned the stripes of the American flag into barbed wire to symbolize Trump's protectionist rhetoric, including the plan to build a border wall with Mexico and his entry ban on citizens of seven countries. Asking 'Can we stop him?' the paper accuses the new US leader of taking America to the edge of democracy with decisions that have divided his country and the world. Author: Nik Martin In January, Schulz was officially chosen as the SPD's candidate for the Chancellery in September's parliamentary elections."This is a gesture of respect for our colleagues in Hamburg [a reference to Spiegel's editorial office in the northern German city]," the editor-in-chief of the German edition of "Charlie Hebdo" - using the pseudonym Minka Schneider - told the German news agency DPA on Wednesday, the day before the next issue was due to hit newsstands."What shocked us most was the negative response," Schneider said. "We think this cover is pretty good.""We know the accusations about violating sound journalistic customs all too well," an editorial in this week's issue reads.&nbsp;"We are in the same boat, because at the&nbsp;center of this spat - in your&nbsp;case as in ours - is&nbsp;the debate about freedom of opinion and the way it which you use it. Or don't."The German version of "Charlie Hebdo" hit German newsstands in late November. It is its first foreign-language edition and was started&nbsp;almost two years after its Paris staff was almost wiped out in a deadly jihadi attack.