The US Department of Justice has announced that Volkswagen will plead guilty to three criminal charges and pay a record $4.3 billion in fines. The US will also charge six VW executives for various crimes. (11.01.2017) A German media report suggests ex-Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn knew of the dieselgate scandal well before it went public. Winterkorn maintained his innocence to a parliamentary inquiry last week. (03.02.2017) A US court has published new documents on a proposed settlement for US owners of Volkswagen's 3-liter diesel cars, showing that the fixes and buybacks could cost the German carmaker more than it expected. (01.02.2017) German carmaker Volkswagen struck a landmark compensation deal Tuesday after a federal judge in San Francisco approved&nbsp;a preliminary $1.2 billion (1.13 billion euros) fix or buy-back plan.The initial deal will see VW compensate the owners of around 78,000 3-liter diesel vehicles caught up in the company's emissions cheating scandal. The agreement will see the carmaker offer customers thousands of dollars in compensation&nbsp;on top of buybacks and repairs.The deal also covers VW's other brands, Audi and Porsche.Robert Giuffra, an attorney representing VW, said the settlement "marks an important milestone in Volkswagen's efforts to make things right in the United States."However, if VW cannot fix the newer models to US regulators' satisfaction, then attorneys representing car owners will likely go back to court to seek buybacks. That could see the German car giant's latest compensation bill for 3-liter engines rise to over $4 billion (3.78 billion euros).Tuesday's preliminary deal allows car owners to weigh in on the deal and find out whether their vehicle is eligible for compensation. U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer scheduled a final hearing on whether to grant final approval for the deal for May 11.In a separate settlement, Breyer also granted preliminary approval for a deal that will see German auto supplier Robert Bosch GmbH&nbsp;pay $327.5 million (309.6 million euros) in compensation to VW owners.About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was Sept. 18, 2015. Over the next year, the crisis would gain momentum - and take a few unexpected turns.Volkswagen's CEO, Martin Winterkorn, had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. On Sept. 23, he tendered his resignation. But he kept his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. To this day, he still maintains he never knew anything about the cheating.Winterkorn's successor was Matthias M ller. Until taking the reins at VW, M ller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Like his predecessor, M ller insisted he knew nothing of the deception. It is now his responsibility to clean up shop at Europe's largest car maker. That wasn't always easy.Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On Oct. 8, state prosecutors raided VW HQ and several other locations.On Jan. 4 of this year, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW, accusing it of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations.Even before Germany's Federal Motor Transport Authority gave the green light, VW began recalling "Amarok" models for repairs. As early as Jan. 27, the company was aiming to provide a software update for the truck's digital motor and exhaust control. Owners of other affected models, such as the Passat or Golf, had to wait.On March 9, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one many people in the US turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness.It's not every day that a district judge from the US is as well known in Germany as Charles Breyer, from San Francisco. The highest-ranking judge in northern California, Breyer was responsible for negotiating with VW. On April 21, the car company came to an agreement with US authorities, though many of the details remained unclear.On June 28, it became clear that VW would have to pay as much as $14.7 billion (13.3 billion euros), alluding to a settlement. Affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. Whether VW will be forced to offer consumers in other countries a similar deal is unclear. Author: Dirk Kaufmann / cjc Further legal battles awaitThe result of Tuesday's hearing means the carmaker has now settled most of its U.S. consumer claims, having already agreed to spend up to $10 billion to compensate owners of around 475,000 2-liter&nbsp;VW and Audi vehicles caught up in the scandal.In&nbsp;January, the company also agreed to pay $4.3 billion to settle a US criminal investigation.However, the German carmaker isn't by any means off the hook. It still faces claims from investors, suits from some U.S. states and pending investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as German prosecutors.U.S. prosecutors have also charged seven former and current VW executives with wrongdoing.Volkswagen's next hearing is in Detroit next week, where it is set to plead guilty to three felony counts as part of its plea agreement with U.S. investigators.dm/rs&nbsp;(AP, Reuters) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2T2nb