The right-wing populist party Alternative for Germany (AfD) was among the first in Germany to congratulate Donald Trump on his election victory. On election day, the party's co-chairs, Frauke Petry and J rg Meuthen, sent a congratulatory telegram announcing that the AfD would be a "natural ally at his side." Messages of solidarity from other AfD leaders followed.DW takes a look at the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party - the newest force in German politics. What is it, where did it come from and what role will it play in the 2017 election? Here are all the answers. (20.01.2017) The head of Germany's nationalist AfD has argued that the framers of the constitution had a post-War context that is no longer relevant. In a newspaper interview, she argued that is should not apply to Syrian refugees. (25.01.2017) One of the AfD's top politicians, Alexander Gauland, is quitting two posts to focus on his candidacy for the German parliament. Gauland's politics have been described as a "disgrace" by SPD frontrunner Martin Schulz. (31.01.2017) Conservatives in Chancellor Angela Merkel's northern German constituency have nominated her again as their direct candidate for September's federal election. Challengers for her seat include a regional AfD populist. (28.01.2017) The statements came as no surprise to those who have looked at populist economic debates. The Berlin-based historian Paul Nolte recently wrote of common "transatlantic patterns in discussions on liberal and authoritarian ideas," in the Berliner Zeitung newspaper. In 2016, party researcher Karsten Grabow of the conservative Konrad Adenauer Stiftung described the "political opinion" of populist political programs as the "exaltation of the 'common people' as the measure of morality, under external threat and betrayed from above." One only needs to compare speeches from Donald Trump, Bj rn H cke (AfD) and Frauke Petry (AfD) to find parallels, he said.Kindred spiritsLarge swaths of the AfD are no doubt just as enthusiastic about Trump, though there have yet to be polls taken to affirm that supposition. Anyone who has listened to discussions taking place among the AfD party base will have heard the phrase "international populism" repeated again and again. The goal of this "movement" is to replace the existing political establishment. Trump's victory is seen as an important step to that end.Both AfD and Trump proclaim that they have "heard the voice of the people," as Leipzig-based political scientist and AfD-expert Hendrik Tr ger told Deutsche Welle. Both "also represent nationalist positions."The Dresden-based political scientist and populism-expert Werner J. Patzelt shares that view. He told Deutsche Welle that is the reason the AfD might be convinced that, with Trump, the White House is finally occupied by "someone that acts like a politician is supposed to." They seem certain that he is not someone that just talks, rather, he is someone that will get things done. Why bother negotiating tedious compromises when one can sign executive orders? Patzelt says there are also structural similarities: "Namely, a representation gap, in which a sizable portion of society feels as if they are not being represented by the media-political class and have now found an outlet for their frustration."AfD leader Frauke Petry (l.) with France's National Front leader Marine Le Pen'Trump is a one-man show, AfD is a heterogenous party'However, Tr ger and Patzelt say that is where the similarities end. Patzelt insists that Trump is a phenomenon that cannot simply be plugged into the German political landscape. Germany, he says, has a solid system of party and parliamentary government. Moreover, there is "no multi-billionaire at the head of the AfD that could take over the party."Tr ger points to another difference: "Trump is a one-man show, in contrast, the AfD is a heterogenous party." He says that the party is, "a colorful collection of various currents with little, if anything, in common; though such differences have been successfully swept under the rug up to now." One Trump effect could be that discussions within the party amplify discord. Tr ger suspects that Trump's escapades might be a deterrent to some members, resulting in a clear partitioning of groups within the AfD.Patzelt is also convinced that Trump will likely have a chilling effect. Support for him will only remain constant until the moment it becomes clear that, "this guy is driving his country into the ditch." At that point the cry within the AfD will be: "Every man for himself - and everyone will try to keep as far away from Trump as possible."AfD party leader in Thuringia, Bj rn H cke'H cke can do that without Trump' Patzelt sees another teachable moment in all of this; namely, that "a ruthless American nationalism will do more damage than good." Thus the realization that "a country like Germany, with its complex central geo-political position, is best served by careful multilateralism," will grow.And what about Bj rn H cke and the far-right wing of the AfD? In the short-term they may feel emboldened to further lower the threshold of political correctness, says Tr ger. H cke is a "genuinely German phenomenon" that would act just as he does without someone like Trump, counters Patzelt. "The AfD doesn't need to listen to Trump to come up with crude slogans, they can do that on their own."The leader of the Alternative for Germany, Frauke Petry, said police could use guns as a last resort to prevent illegal border crossings, pointing out "that's the law." What began as a euroskeptic party has turned into an anti-establishment and anti-EU force, claiming up to 25 percent of votes in German state elections in March 2016 and taking second place in Chancellor Angela Merkel's home state.Many believe Brexit and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential elections could give new impetus to France's National Front. Established in 1972 and now led by Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in 2011, the National Front is a nationalist party that uses populist rhetoric to promote its anti-immigration and anti-EU positions.The leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, is one of Europe's most prominent right-wing politicians. He was convicted in December for asking a crowd in 2014 if they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the country, but no penalty was imposed. His party is considered anti-EU and anti-Islam. It is leading polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections and currently holds 15 seats.Nikos Michaloliakos is the head of Greece's neo-fascist party Golden Dawn. He was arrested in September 2013 along with dozens of other party members and charged with forming a criminal organization. Michaloliakos was released in July 2015. Golden Dawn won 18 seats in parliamentary elections in September 2016. The party holds anti-immigrant views and favors a defense agreement with Russia.Hungary's anti-immigration, populist and economic protectionist party Jobbik aspires to be in the government by 2018. Now Hungary's third-largest party, it won 20 percent of votes in the last elections held in 2014. It wants a referendum on EU membership. Jobbik also advocates criminalizing "sexual deviancy," submitting a bill targeting homosexuals in 2012. Jobbik is headed by Gabor Vona.After Trump's election, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson said in an interview with Swedish TV: "There is a movement in both Europe and the United States where the establishment is being challenged. It is clearly happening here as well." The Sweden Democrats call for restricting immigration, are against allowing Turkey to join the EU and want a referendum on EU membership. Norbert Hofer of Austria's nationalist Freedom Party lost the recent presidential runoff by a mere 30,000 votes, after being front-runner in the first round. Former Green party leader Alexander Van der Bellen won 50.3 percent of the vote, with Hofer gaining 49.7 percent. The Freedom Party's leader campaigns for the strengthening of the country's borders and limiting benefits for immigrants.The leader of the hard-right People's Party - Our Slovakia, Marian Kotleba, has said, "Even one immigrant is one too many." On another occasion, he called NATO a "criminal organization." This Slovak party favors leaving the EU as well as the eurozone. It won 8 percent of the vote in March 2016 elections, securing 14 seats in the country's 150-member parliament.