Mexico could just as easily be called an accessory to the US's immigration policies as it coulda victim of them: &nbsp;The newly inaugurated Donald Trump has rightly been criticized for his statements about immigrants and approach to unauthorized migration, but&nbsp;Enrique Pena Nieto, &nbsp;his more seasoned Mexican counterpart, is hardly innocent.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Mexico since 2014 has dramatically increased his enforcement efforts and travelling through Mexico continues to be very dangerous for central American migrants," said Maureen Meyer, a migration expert at the Washington Office of Latin America (WOLA). "It also is very difficult for Central American migrants to enter the US. To cross the US border undetected is very difficult, it's very expensive, people die. That actually is going to be harder with increased enforcement - whether it is more wall or additional agents."This is confirmed by figures from Mexico's Interior Ministry. Between 2010 and 2015, the number of people deported increased from 65,802 to 176,726 people annually. Last year, the number was 147,000. Over 90 percent of them were originally from Central American countries such as Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador.Prisoners participating in the Wild Horse Inmate Program train mustangs that will eventually be adopted by the U.S. Border Patrol, providing the agency with inexpensive but agile horses. The inmates on their turn will be equipped with skills and insights they hope to one day carry with them from Florence State Prison.The horses are trained in Florence, Arizona and applied in border cities like Jacumba and also San Diego in California. They are critical for patrolling the rugged and remote stretches of the Mexican border to detect illegal crossings by migrants and drug trafficking. Just 654 miles (1053 kilometers) of fence exist between the United States and Mexico, accounting for about a third of the border. The rest is defined by mountains, rivers, private ranches and wild country - terrain more suited for horses, which all agents had back when Border Patrol was founded in 1924. Here, Border Patrol agents head out on patrol along the fence near Jacumba, California.On horseback, the agents can navigate desolate stretches of land that vehicles cannot. The mustangs are sure-footed on steep terrain, crossing creekbeds without hesitation and stepping spryly over rattlesnakes. Some 55,000 mustangs roam the Western United States. Here, wild horses are herded into corrals in Milford, Utah.At the prison in Florence, a cactus-dotted town about 140 miles north (225 km) of the Mexican border, most inmates don't have experience with horses. Over the course of four to six months, the men train their horses to tolerate bridles and saddles, respond to commands to trot and canter and perform footwork that will come in handy on the uneven desert terrain along the border.The task of the Florence inmates who train the horses is, at times, thick with irony: Some are Mexican nationals, apprehended on the border for drug-related offenses. The inmates, though, say they don't mind that the horses help law enforcement. They are simply happy the animals no longer face thirst and starvation in the drought-stricken West.The San Diego border patrol unit has 28 horses, of which many were adopted from the Florence prison. These adoptions are key to the government's effort to stem the growing population of mustangs. A federal law tasked the Bureau of Land Management with managing wild horse and burro populations, both to protect the animals and to ensure that vegetation was not overgrazed and water sources depleted.Florence began its horse training program in 2012, and while it is too early to assess the long-term effects on participating inmates, of the 50 or so who have gone through it and have been released, none has returned to prison."It really feels like the Wild West out where we patrol for sure," says Bobby Stine, supervisory agent of the San Diego Sector Horse Patrol Unit. "There's just not a lot of law enforcement presence, except for us." Author: Nadine Berghausen Since the Southern Border Program to extend controls was approved in 2014, traveling across Mexico has become even more difficult for people without the authorization to do so. They have to pass through checkpoints and passport controls on freeways, at bus stops and at the roadside; they can be found out at any time. According to WOLA, the number of arrests at border crossings from Guatemala and Belize rose from 96,298 people in 2013 to 198,141 in 2015.Police brutalityThe Latin American migration network Redodom carried out a survey of 30,000 people who had been deported. Forty-five percent of the respondents said they had been subjected to violence by organized criminal gangs. Almost the same number, 41 percent, complained of acts of violence by Mexico's security forces."The Mexican state is not meeting international and constitutional obligations," Redodom found, "because it does not respect the human rights of migrants." In other words, practical politics is at odds with the government's official human rights discourse.The hard line against immigrants from Central and South America doesn't seem to have paid off politically for the government. Mexicans certainly do not feel that they have received&nbsp;their due gratitude from Washington. "They feel that they have helped the US a lot in the past few years and got very little in return," WOLA's Meyer said.This is why Meyer is convinced that President Pena Nieto might bring up migration in any future upcoming negotiations with the Trump administration on security at the US-Mexico border. She said many Mexicans did not understand why their country should have to intercept migrants trying to pass through it to reach the United States.'Separation of families'Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama, also enacted harsh policies toward&nbsp;immigrants, perhaps hoping in the hopes that his fervor would impress the opposition Republicans in Congress. During the eight years he was in office, from 2009 to 2017, nearly 3 million people were deported - more than under any other president."He really believed that if he showed Republicans that he was tough on migration, which means increasing deportations, he was sooner or later to convince them to pass immigration reform in the Congress," Meyer said. "What happened was mass deportations of migrants, separation of millions of families&nbsp;and increased militarization of the US-Mexican border," she added.The number of deportations has now dropped again. It peaked in 2013, when the Obama administration sent 435,000 people back to their homelands. In 2016 the number of deportations fell to less than 150,000.Tax on transfers?Now millions of people in the United States fear a fresh wave of arrests and deportations. In addition to building his promised border wall, President Trump has expressed a desire to add an additional 5,000 Border Patrol agents.A new idea for financing the building of the wall is already doing the rounds. The Republican Congressman Mike Rogers from Alabama has proposed that remittances sent to Mexico should be subject to a 2 percent tax.At first glance, this looks like a lucrative business. Between November 2016 and January 2017, Mexicans sent $27 billion dollars (25 million euros) back to their homeland. Taxing remittances could mean $540 million toward Trump's $21.6 billion wall.For Mexico's economy, though, it would constitute another blow. It would also presumably result in another legal battle for the new US administration. A transaction tax that targets a single demographic group is almost certainly unconstitutional.The border wall with Mexico was the signature promise of now President Donald Trump's election campaign, standing out from the storm of controversial and often contradictory campaign statements. Once elected, Trump quickly set the wheels in motion by ordering the construction to start. Experiences from around the world, however, show that massive barriers do not come easy - or cheap.The so-called "Tortilla Wall" already spans some 700 miles (1,126 kilometers) of the US-Mexico border. Experts believe that the US would need to pay between $15 billion and $25 billion in order to fully wall-off the entire southern frontier. US President Trump has said it would cost less and that Mexico would foot the bill.Israel started building its own controversial barrier in 2002, with construction continuing to this day. The structure is expected to stretch at least 650 kilometers (403 miles) across the Holy Land, most of it consisting of an electric wire fence. Observers believe its cost has already topped $2.6 billion (2.4 billion euros), with maintenance costs reaching $260 million per year.The Berlin Wall spanned 155 kilometers (91 miles) before its demolition in 1991. Unlike the many other walls across the world, the barrier was built by East Germany to keep the would-be emigrants inside the country. It cost about $25 million to build in 1961, equivalent to $200 million (almost 186.5 million euros) in present-day money.Capitalist South Korea and its Communist northern neighbor are divided by barbed wire and watchtowers, as well as around 1 million landmines. Following the 1953 truce, both Pyongyang and Seoul agreed to pull their troops 2 kilometers (1.24 miles) away inland, creating a demilitarized zone along the border that stretches 248 kilometers (154 miles).A total of 48 "peace lines" separate Catholic and Protestant neighborhoods in Belfast, a legacy of centuries-long religious war. The barriers including high brick walls, concrete structures, barb wire and metal bars. These barricades include gates to allow for circulation of people and traffic, but the gates close after nightfall.