A missing speed limit sign at a construction site on one of Europe's busiest highways, the A-3 near Cologne, is turning out to be a potentially costly matter.For months, no one noticed anything amiss, and speed radar cameras flashed hundreds of thousands of drivers going more than 60 kilometers per hour (35 mph) from February through December 2016 - raking in 11 million euros ($11.7 million) in fines for the city of Cologne. Reduced temporary speed limits are standard at works sites on the German highways, but they are typically indicated with signs.A British motorist has been fined about 1,000 (1,400 euros; $1,600) for hogging the middle lane of a motorway. He also got hit with five penalty points. Police can also hand out on-the-spot fines of 100 for careless or inconsiderate driving - such as splashing pedestrians. Researchers say hogging the middle lane can cause traffic jams. And let's face it, splashing people is just rude.Don't mind if your car looks messy? Well, police in Romania sure do. It's illegal to drive an "excessively dirty car." You can be punished for not cleaning your license plate, headlights and taillights. It probably wouldn't hurt to clean the windows too.We've all been there - stuck watching one truck slowly overtaking another. Switzerland has decided to put an end to snail-paced races with a law requiring vehicles in the far-left lane of a three-lane highway be able to go at least 100 km/h (62 mph). The new regulations are due to come into effect in 2016. so brace yourself with winter tires when traveling to Iceland between November and April. Iceland is not the only country that requires snow tires in winter - Austria, Estonia and Finland, among others, as insisting on winter weather gear. While it's not mandatory to carry snow chains in most EU countries, it's still a good idea to have them handy.Streets are regularly swept in Finland, so Avis warns car renters to keep up with the cleaning schedule. The city of Helsinki posts street signs, information on the Internet and sends text messages all to let car owners know when to move their vehicles. And those who fail to do so...well, city officials will remove it for them for a charge."Turn on the lights when it's dark" is one of the first lessons in drivers' ed, but Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Poland are the among the countries where it's mandatory when the sun is shining too. And since 2011, all new passenger cars and small vans in the EU have to be equipped with daytime running lights that automatically turn on when starting the engine.Remember to bring a spare pair of glasses if you plan on driving in Spain! You'll be required to have an extra pair if it's noted on your driver's license that you need glasses in order to drive. Now just remember to put them in the glove compartment!Germany's famous Autobahn has often been described as a road with no speed limits. While some sections of it don't have a general speed limit, there are plenty of rules on how fast you're allowed to drive in Germany. You might even have to keep track of time, as certain rules only apply at certain times during the day. That also goes for speed limits elsewhere too, such as in front of schools. Author: Sarah Steffen The story surfaced early this year and made headlines in the region after a driver successfully filed a suit, which raised the issue of whether everyone who had been wrongfully fined might be entitled to compensation.After quite a bit of wrangling and conflicting answers from the city of Cologne and the regional government - it seems the latter was responsible for the missing sign - a solution has been found. Intent on trying to simplify what is a complicated legal situation after initially refusing refunds, Cologne's city council is expected to sign off on "voluntary financial compensation" for 365,000 drivers Tuesday."Mistakes have to be corrected," read an editorial in the local K lner Stadt-Anzeiger newspaper earlier this month, "even when it's inconvenient for the authorities."&nbsp;Fines, points, suspensionsElke H bner, who works with consumer issues at&nbsp;Germany's ADAC automotive club, told DW that officials&nbsp;have been reluctant to give out details on Cologne's planned compensation program. But the pressure on the city was so overwhelming that officials had to act, she said:&nbsp;"We have been getting so many calls from angry citizens affected by the glitch who couldn't understand why the city won't simply reimburse them, since they are the ones who wrongfully took in the money."&nbsp;&nbsp;One-sixth of the 43 million drivers in Germany have penalty points in the register Administrative proceedings are effectively concluded once drivers have paid fines, and they cannot be easily reopened. Because of that, Cologne's city council will need to agree on the least bureaucratic solution: Drivers who want to retrieve their money must fill out a form - currently being prepared - on the city's website.Conservatives want to involve the private sector in running Germany's beloved highway system. That's angered the opposition, their coalition partners and even some of their own party members. (13.11.2016) Germany's upper house of parliament wants to introduce harsher penalties for illegal car racing. This has been prompted by numerous speeding incidents, particularly in city centers, many of which have ended in death. (26.09.2016) Three people have been killed in Cologne this year during illegal car races. This past weekend, a race claimed another victim in northern Germany. The racers are often young men who feel they have something to prove. (21.07.2015) That might be a solution for drivers who weren't too far above the alleged speed limit, but courts of law are likely to be involved in cases in which drivers were slapped with points against their records - or perhaps even lost their licenses, which happens after eight points are accumulated, with various infractions earning more points than others.Drivers caught running red lights can expect one point in the register on top of a fine, for example, and doing 20-25 kilometers over the speed limit also nets a fine and at least one point.On Monday the Stadt-Anzeiger&nbsp;reported that one woman who had received a fine, a one-month driving suspension and two penalty points as a result of the absent sign. It is not clear how the courts and the regional government plan to solve such cases - or who is to pay for financial consequences of suspended licenses, including public transportation fees and perhaps even the loss of income.But Inge Sch rmann, who leads Cologne's press department, said&nbsp;the city "can only settle financial matters," adding that whatever else follows is beyond the city's power.