The Swiss parliament has decided to give its citizens the first opportunity at available jobs, circumventing voters' demands for immigration caps and quotas. The proposed measures could violate Swiss-EU agreements, according to analysts. Switzerland's government has lurched to the right with the Swiss People's Party (SVP) picking up a second seat in the seven-member cabinet. The eurosceptic party won nearly 30 percent of the vote in October elections. (09.12.2015) Swiss voters on Sunday approved a measure to allow third-generation migrants to receive citizenship more easily, according to preliminary results.The government, along with most lawmakers and political parties, supported the proposal for "simplified naturalization of third-generation immigrants."The referendum passed with 60.4 percent of the vote, Swiss broadcaster SRF reported. Meeting the minimum requirement, at least 14 cantons voted in favor of the proposal, according to official results.The proposal's success at the polls marked a major defeat for the right-wing Swiss People's Party (SVP), the Alpine nation's largest party in parliament, known for its targeted campaigns attempting to vilify Islam.'Alone against everyone'SVP lawmaker Jean-Luc Addor said his party's supporters were "alone against everyone in this campaign.""The problem of Islam, I'm afraid, it will catch up with us in a few years," Addor told Swiss public broadcaster RTS.The measure lowers bureaucratic hurdles for approximately 25,000 third-generation immigrants under the age of 25.Italians amount to nearly 60 percent of the group, with&nbsp;residents of Balkan and Turkish origin also&nbsp;making up the bulk of the remainder of those eligible for naturalization.Meanwhile, a majority of Swiss voters also rejected the proposal on tax reform, bucking developed nations' trends which offer tax incentives to lure companies to their countries. Analysts say the proposal's failure will likely lead to higher overall tax rates.The leader of the Alternative for Germany, Frauke Petry, said police could use guns as a last resort to prevent illegal border crossings, pointing out "that's the law." What began as a euroskeptic party has turned into an anti-establishment and anti-EU force, claiming up to 25 percent of votes in German state elections in March 2016 and taking second place in Chancellor Angela Merkel's home state.Many believe Brexit and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential elections could give new impetus to France's National Front. Established in 1972 and now led by Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in 2011, the National Front is a nationalist party that uses populist rhetoric to promote its anti-immigration and anti-EU positions.The leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, is one of Europe's most prominent right-wing politicians. He was convicted in December for asking a crowd in 2014 if they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the country, but no penalty was imposed. His party is considered anti-EU and anti-Islam. It is leading polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections and currently holds 15 seats.Nikos Michaloliakos is the head of Greece's neo-fascist party Golden Dawn. He was arrested in September 2013 along with dozens of other party members and charged with forming a criminal organization. Michaloliakos was released in July 2015. Golden Dawn won 18 seats in parliamentary elections in September 2016. The party holds anti-immigrant views and favors a defense agreement with Russia.Hungary's anti-immigration, populist and economic protectionist party Jobbik aspires to be in the government by 2018. Now Hungary's third-largest party, it won 20 percent of votes in the last elections held in 2014. It wants a referendum on EU membership. Jobbik also advocates criminalizing "sexual deviancy," submitting a bill targeting homosexuals in 2012. Jobbik is headed by Gabor Vona.After Trump's election, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson said in an interview with Swedish TV: "There is a movement in both Europe and the United States where the establishment is being challenged. It is clearly happening here as well." The Sweden Democrats call for restricting immigration, are against allowing Turkey to join the EU and want a referendum on EU membership. Norbert Hofer of Austria's nationalist Freedom Party lost the recent presidential runoff by a mere 30,000 votes, after being front-runner in the first round. Former Green party leader Alexander Van der Bellen won 50.3 percent of the vote, with Hofer gaining 49.7 percent. The Freedom Party's leader campaigns for the strengthening of the country's borders and limiting benefits for immigrants.The leader of the hard-right People's Party - Our Slovakia, Marian Kotleba, has said, "Even one immigrant is one too many." On another occasion, he called NATO a "criminal organization." This Slovak party favors leaving the EU as well as the eurozone. It won 8 percent of the vote in March 2016 elections, securing 14 seats in the country's 150-member parliament.ls/jlw (AFP, AP, dpa)