Advocate General Paolo Mengozzi said that any EU member state had to provide a visa on humanitarian grounds if&nbsp;new arrivals were judged to be at risk. The announcement came after Belgian authorities refused to grant humanitarian visas to a family from the besieged city of Aleppo, arguing their links to the city were too tenuous and that they were not obliged to admit everyone coming from a war zone like Syria."The Belgian State was not entitled to conclude that it was exempted from its positive obligation under Article 4 of the Charter," Mengozzi said, referring to the European Union's rulebook on human rights.Mengozzi's opinion is not binding - however, the advocate general's comments are usually followed by the court, which is due to rule on the case of the Syrian family in the coming weeks. The ruling could affect policy across all EU member states.Daily finesBelgian State Secretary for Migration, Theo Francken, made controversial remarks that may cost the Belgian taxpayer hundreds of thousands of eurosBelgian Immigration Minister Theo Francken made a controversial statement about the family from Syria in November 2016, saying that he would rather sell&nbsp;his office furniture in order to pay&nbsp;daily fines for defying EU guidelines on admitting refugees instead of honoring a court ruling in favor of the Syrian family. Belgium has been fined 4,000 euros ($4,270) a day for defying a local appeal tribunal in the case. The family is believed still to be in Syria.Many EU states are struggling to process and care for hundreds of thousand of refugees from the Middle East and North Africa, the majority of whom undertake perilous journeys to the EU to apply for asylum on arrival.ss/rt&nbsp;(AP, Reuters, dpa)Famous for his theory of relativity, German Jewish Nobel Prize laureate Albert Einstein was visiting the US in 1933 when it became clear he could not return to Nazi Germany. He seems to have had mixed feelings about life in exile. He once wrote that he felt "privileged by fate" to be living in Princeton, but "almost ashamed to be living in such peace while all the rest struggle and suffer." German singer and actress Marlene Dietrich, she of the husky voice and bedroom eyes, was already a star living in the US, when she acquired American citizenship in 1939 and turned her back on Nazi Germany. A prominent refugee, she spoke out against Hitler and sang for US troops during the war - while her films were banned in Germany. But she said: "I was born a German and shall always remain one."He was a Harvard professor, an authority on international relations, the 56th US Secretary of State, and instrumental in shaping American foreign policy - but in 1938, Bavarian-born Henry Kissinger fled Germany to escape Nazi persecution. Nevertheless Germany, the nonagenarian said in a speech several years ago, "has never ceased being a part of my life."Born in what is now the Czech Republic, Madeleine Albright and her family fled to the US in 1948 when communists took over the government. She got involved in politics and went on to become the highest-ranking woman in the US government: the first female Secretary of State (1997-2001).Born in Vienna in 1919, Lord George Weidenfeld was a British Jewish publisher who immigrated to London in the aftermath of the Nazi annexation of Austria. He co-founded a publishing company, served as chief of staff to Israel's first president, and funded the rescue of Syrian and Iraqi Christians. "I can't save the world but I had a debt to repay," he once said.The 20th century Hungarian composer, virtuoso pianist and folk music collector Bela Bartok was not a Jew, but he was opposed to the rise of Nazism and the persecution of the Jews. In 1940, he moved to the US. "My main idea, which dominates me entirely, is the brotherhood of man over and above all conflicts," Bartok is quoted as saying. Milos Forman, already a leading art-house film director, turned his back on Czechoslovakia and moved to the US after the Prague Spring of 1968. He went on to make two internationally acclaimed Oscar-winning movies: "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" (1975) and the 1984 period drama film "Amadeus."Chilean President Salvador Allende was overthrown in a coup and died in 1973. His cousin's daughter Isabel (who called him uncle) fled to Venezuela after herself receiving death threats. She later settled in the US. Her novels are internationally-acclaimed classics of magical realism, including the "The House of the Spirits" and "Eva Luna."Miriam Makeba - lovingly know as Mama Africa - was on tour in the US when the South African government cancelled the young woman's passport for campaigning against the Apartheid regime and later banned her from returning home. Her song "Pata Pata" was a worldwide hit in 1967. The legendary singer lived in the US and Guinea before she saw her native country again decades later.Sioux leader Tatanka Iyotake - Sitting Bull - is one of the most famous Native American chiefs in history. Did you know he spent a few years as a refugee? In 1877 he fled to Canada, almost a year after the Battle of the Little Bighorn, also known as Custer's Last Stand. In 1881, he returned to the US, was taken prisoner, and later returned to a reservation.Like his colleague Vedad Ibisevic of Hertha Berlin, Bundesliga soccer player Neven Subotic - who has just signed for K ln from Dortmund - fled the war in Bosnia as a child. Well aware of hardship, Subotic in 2012 created a foundation to help give people in the poorest parts of the world access to clean water and sanitation. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach