Settlements are one of the most contentious issues between Israelis and Palestinians.There are currently more than half-a-million Jewish settlers in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.According to the Israeli advocacy group Peace Now, more than 130 settlements have been officially established in the West Bank since 1967,&nbsp;along with more than 90 outposts, which were built without government approval.Palestinians argue settlements, along with Israeli-only roads, security barriers and military checkpoints, threaten the viability of a two-state solution.Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah told Conflict Zone in early 2016 that the "expansion of settlements on a daily basis kills the viability of a Palestinian state."Most countries across the world view settlement building on Palestinian land as a violation of international law.In December 2016, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that said the establishment of settlements in Palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem, had "no legal validity"&nbsp;and "constituted a flagrant violation under international law and a major obstacle to the vision of two states living side-by-side in peace and security."&nbsp;It called for an immediate halt to all settlement building.Likelihood of a two-state solution&nbsp;diminishing Yet, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu labeled the UN call "shameful"&nbsp;and just a month later his government announced&nbsp;a major settlement expansion&nbsp;in the West Bank.They approved thousands of new housing units in settlements in the West Bank, such as Efrat, an Israeli settlement located about 15 kilometers south of Jerusalem between Bethlehem and Hebron. The settlement is home to about 8,500 people.Its mayor, Oded Revivi, who is also Chief Foreign Envoy for The Yesha Council that represents settlers, told DW's Conflict Zone that settlements are not an obstacle to peace.He blamed the Palestinians for blocking the peace process and said the likelihood of a two-state solution is diminishing. According to Revivi, Israel and Palestine are "moving farther and farther away from a two-state solution with every day that passes."Revivi said it was time to look for a third option.United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem We don't destroy any Palestinian homes'When confronted with an international backlash to Israel's settlement building and asked why he thinks so many countries backed the&nbsp;recent United Nations' resolution that condemned Israeli settlements as "illegal", Revivi said it is because these critics "don't see the reality.""Some of them are biased and some of them are prejudiced. And some of them have changed their opinions after they've come here,"&nbsp;he said.&nbsp;According to the Israeli human rights organization B'Tselem, Israel's Civil Administration demolished 20 homes and 13 other structures in Palestinian communities in the West Bank within a week and a half in August 2016, leaving 53 people, including 25 minors, homeless.Confronted with these numbers and asked what kind of government destroys homes where children are living to throw them out onto the street, Revivi said: "That sounds heartbreaking, but "Tim Sebastian:&nbsp;"But what?"Oded Revivi:&nbsp;"You have to understand. You have to ask yourself whether these houses were built on land which is owned by these private individuals, whether these houses were built with building permits or by using children as prisoners in these acts of illegal building."Conflict Zone traveled to the settlement of Efrat in the West Bank to talk to Efrat's mayor, Oded ReviviTim Sebastian:&nbsp;"Families using children as prisoners? Children tend to live with their families, Mr. Revivi. Maybe they do in your settlement as well. And you call that being held prisoner?"Oded Revivi:&nbsp;"Tim I have seen your shows, you are an intelligent person. Don't undermine the other side; they have used hospitals to launch missiles from."Tim Sebastian:&nbsp;"We are not talking about that. We are talking about you bulldozing Palestinian homes where children are living and throwing children onto the street and I am asking: Don't you ever have a twinge of guilt about that sort of situation?&nbsp; Doesn't it ever give you pause for thought?"Oded Revivi&nbsp;"I didn't realize you were so dramatic."Tim Sebastian:&nbsp;"The situation is dramatic, Mr. Revivi."Will Israel get 'unconditional'&nbsp;backing from President Trump?The Obama administration had pressured Israel to freeze the building of additional settlements, over fears they could derail hopes of a negotiated two-state solution.But new US President Donald Trump has pledged strong support for Israel, and his aides are more sympathetic to the settlement plan.Revivi, who attended the inauguration of Donald Trump, was asked whether he thought there would be a change in US settlement policy."There is going to be a meeting in the beginning of February between the new elected President and the Israeli Prime Minister,"&nbsp;Revivi answered. "Understandings will be reached, agreements will be reached and then we'll be able to know what's going to be the policy of this new administration."Since Trump's inauguration, the Israeli government made&nbsp;four announcements to construct more settlement homes in the West Bank, the latest just yesterday.