The German Bishops' Conference announced Wednesday that "differentiated solutions" made at the parish level would allow previously divorced but now remarried Catholics to receive communion.Eleven retired priests from Germany have called for an end to celibacy in an open letter, written in review of their 50 years as clergy. They are unusually candid in addressing the isolation many priests face. (17.01.2017) The pope has said individual conscience, not hard and fast rules, should dictate Catholics' attitudes on love and sex in a new document on the subject. He opted, however, to maintain the status quo on homosexuality. (08.04.2016) The bishops' proposed method - a case-by-case basis without hard criteria - does not guarantee such parishioners the ability to participate in communion. "Not all believers whose marriage broke down and&nbsp;who received a civil divorce and are now remarried will be able to receive the sacrament without a decision," they wrote.However, the bishops said their decision "opens the possibility of receiving the sacraments of reconciliation and the Eucharist" to divorced Catholics currently in a second marriage.These married Catholics were previously barred from taking communion because the Church considered them to be living in a state of sin. Only if the couple received an annulment of their prior marriages could they receive what Catholics believe to be the body of Christ.Interpretation of a papal writingIn their statement, the bishops cited Pope Francis' April 2016 "The Joy of Love" exhortation as the source for their conclusion.Though Pope Francis avoided issuing concrete guidelines on whether remarried Catholics could partake in communion, he emphasized the importance of questions of conscience. The bishops concluded that this allows for such people to receive the Eucharist on a case-by-case basis.Individual&nbsp;evaluations will be made at the parish level by pastoral counselors and the people affected.&nbsp;The German bishops' decision follows that of Argentinean and Maltese bishops, who earlier announced similar guidelines.Pope Francis has not dictated precise communion rulesOpposition in the clergyThough Catholic reform groups welcomed the statement, not all clergy leaders agree, with&nbsp;conservative bishops arguing that&nbsp;the decision weakens the institution of marriage. German Cardinal&nbsp;Joachim Meisner and Cardinal Walter Brandm ller joined the pope's doctrinal leader, German Gerhard M ller, in opposing the bishop conference's&nbsp;interpretation of Pope Francis' words.In an interview with Italian media, M ller said church doctrine clearly prohibits divorced and remarried Catholics from taking communion unless they abstain from sex. Catholic bishops should also take their teachings from doctrine and not from the pope, he added. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1ISCycmb/sms (AP, dpa, epd)