As Germany claims Afghanistan is a safe country, deteriorating security is forcing people from their homes into harsh winter conditions. Aid organizations and the government seem unable to provide adequate assistance. (10.01.2017) Despite his relentless efforts to curb the Afghan insurgency, Obama never actually got a grip on the situation. Experts say he's leaving behind a huge mess in Afghanistan that won't be easy for his successor to clean up. (19.01.2017) At least 37 people in Afghanistan and Pakistan have died in avalanches, collapsed houses and road accidents&nbsp;over the past few days as heavy snow blankets several regions in the two countries.Northern Afghanistan's Badakhshan province has been particularly badly hit, with as many as 19 people dying as a result of the winter weather since Friday, according to officials.The government was trying to reach at least 12 districts in the province that had been completely cut off, said a spokesman for the provincial governor, Naweed Frotan.A spokesman for the Afghanistan Natural Disaster Management Authority (ANDMA) said 22 of the country's 34 provinces had experienced heavy snow, and that avalanches had destroyed some 20 homes. Another 50 had been heavily damaged, he said.He added that many roads, especially in central and northern Afghanistan, remained closed.The international airport in the capital, Kabul, was also closed, and the government declared a nationwide holiday on Sunday owing to the wintery conditions.Badakhshan is one of the worst-hit regionsDeaths in PakistanThe weather has also had calamitous effects across the border in Pakistan, where at least nine people, including children, were killed by an avalanche that hit a village of 25 houses in the northern district of Chitral.District official Syed Maghferat Shah said as many as 14 residents were still believed to be trapped in collapsed houses.Snow and ice have taken over in Afghanistan, with plains, forests and hills all transformed under a layer of brilliant whiteness. The capital, Kabul, is one of the regions changed into a winter landscape, its trees stretching branches clad in silvery raiment.The temperatures outside makes the warmth of a heated home seem tempting. These internally displaced Afghan girls are staying close to the stove, but still seem cold.Traveling by car has become quite an adventure, with snow wreaking havoc on traffic on a number of major roads. Even here, on the outskirts of the capital, Kabul, conditions for driving are perilous.The inclement weather has caused problems across much of the country. But snow has its positive side as well, as these young men can confirm.The poor security situation in many areas of Afghanistan has displaced thousands of people. They are among those to suffer most under the cold conditions, like this child in Kabul.The cold weather seems not to worry these students. They still gave a display of wushu on a hilltop in Kabul.Snow has fallen in huge quantities, with the government even declaring a public holiday because of the inconvenience. This gives people time to clear roofs so they do not collapse under the weight.These donkeys stand patiently in the snow while their owner fills a container with rainwater. They may be pleased that they have be given coats in addition to their natural protection.Another pleasure of snow is undoubtedly building snowmen. And this one standing near Qargha Lake on the outskirts of Kabul towers over its creators.Travel by any means has been made difficult by the weather. This man pushing his heavily loaded bike seems to feel that two wheels are inadequate on the slippery roads.This intrepid vegetable seller has not let himself be put off by the weather. But his customers seem understandably to prefer to remain indoors.tj/jlw (Reuters, dpa, AP)