This is an official visit that comes with some heavy baggage. German Chancellor Angela Merkel can be guaranteed to receive international attention when she travels to Ankara on Thursday. It is her first visit to Turkey since the failed military coup on July 15 last year. Since then, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has transformed the country in autocratic style.Tens of thousands of opposition politicians, journalists, public prosecutors and ordinary citizens have been arrested. Critical media have been closed down.&nbsp;The Kurdish opposition alliance has been decimated by the arrests of several leading members. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2Woy6The allegations are always the same: The parties involved took part in the failed coup or supported terrorism.The Turkish government holds the supporters of the G len movement responsible for the attempted putsch. The Islamic-conservative AKP government routinely rejects any international criticism of its crackdowns, while&nbsp;simultaneously&nbsp;accusing&nbsp;Germany of lacking solidarity in the fight against alleged terrorism. In addition, Turkey has claimed that Germany has been providing a refuge to the banned Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) so that they can procure funds and recruit fighters.Opposition fears election campaign support for ErdoganThese are not good omens for Merkel's upcoming visit. Many opposition politicians in Berlin believe the visit is sending the completely wrong signal. Left Party MP Sevim Dagdelen believes that Merkel's visit is coming at a particularly "inopportune moment." She recently said in an interview on German public radio that the chancellor's presence, just weeks before the constitutional referendum, could only be seen as providing support for Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2WPlTJust over a week ago, Erdogan's ruling AKP party managed to push the bill for constitutional reform, providing for a presidential system, through parliament. The new system would provide the president with significantly more power.The Green Party MP and vice-president of the German parliament, Claudia Roth, drew parallels with Merkel's last official visit to Turkey in 2015. Roth told the news agency DPA that Erdogan misused this meeting as a welcome platform for his then election campaign. The&nbsp;forthcoming referendum will only serve to bring about the "abolition of parliamentary democracy," according to Roth.She further added that if Merkel remains silent on human rights abuses in Turkey, this would signal to Erdogan that he is able to blackmail Europe with his threat of opening the borders for refugees. The EU-Turkish refugee pact, to halt the flow of refugees traveling across the Aegean sea, has resulted in a greatly reduced number of asylum seekers arriving in Greece. Ankara has once again threatened to terminate the agreement. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2WM0qGovernment spokesman Steffen Seibert strongly rejected such criticism of the chancellor's visit to Turkey. "The allegations&nbsp;that the chancellor would take any position on the forthcoming Turkish referendum&nbsp;are absurd," he said, claiming the trip was about making an official visit to a NATO partner, that is also an important neighboring state to the EU. "Particularly in times like these, when there is the situation in Syria to discuss, when there are bilateral issues on the table, as well as the relationship between Turkey and the EU, it is particularly important to seek out a dialogue."Amnesty says Merkel's visit is missing a human rights agendaBut intergovernmental discussions are not enough. In an interview with DW, Marie Lucas, expert on Turkey from Germany's branch of Amnesty International, demanded that the chancellor actively call for the observance of human rights. "Chancellor Merkel must raise the issue of the imprisonment of peaceful government critics and she should also meet with members of the opposition and persecuted human rights activists," she said. "Germany can obviously still exert its influence, and should do so."Lucas believes that during&nbsp;negotiations with Turkey about the EU refugee agreement, the German government has failed in terms of institutionalizing any real dialogue about human rights. "In the past we have seen that objections by governments of other countries can really help persecuted critics of governments," she said, adding that until now, the German government has remained tight-lipped, particularly on the issue of torture in Turkish prisons. "According to our research, people who are purported to have been involved with the coup&nbsp;have been severely tortured. So far, the German government has not had much to say about this."During last month s coup attempt, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on supporters to help defeat military personnel trying to overthrow his ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP). Having thwarted the attempt and crediting much his success to loyalists who filled the street, Erdogan has since asked followers to come out for nightly "Democracy Watch" rallies.On Sunday, the final rallies were held, with a crowd of 2 million in Istanbul and about 10,000 in Ankara. Nearly 80 cities hosted demonstrations in support of Erdogan s AKP, which is Turkey s first party with Islamic leanings to survive a military coup. Supporters viewed the victory as a triumph over the republic s cyclical coups and secular constitution.Speaking from Istanbul, Erdogan promised to "rebuild Turkey from scratch" and the mood was optimistic among supporters. Lale Alici, (not pictured) an Ankara-based real estate agent who has attended every rally since the coup attempt, said: "When the purges are finished, Turkey will accelerate its development because those who infiltrated our government will no longer be a burden on our country."Atalay, (not pictured) an interior designer who didn t give his full name, said he supported Erdogan because he s bringing Turkey to the world stage. "Erdogan s telling the world we re here and we ll be a big power," he said. "Even if you don t like it, you ll have to accept it. The world s bigger than the [seven countries in the G7.]"Though many attending Sunday s rallies said they were defending democracy, opponents noted the country s third-largest political party, the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), was not allowed at the events. "As a Kurd, I can t go to these rallies because I don t feel safe," said Havva Ozcan, (not pictured) co-chair of Tuhad-Fed, a prisoners' rights organization. "Not everyone s welcome."Ozcan also said the rallies received full government support, while other forms of protest have been largely banned. Attendees were not only given free water and food, but the entire public transportation systems in Ankara and Istanbul have been free over the last three weeks to encourage mass mobilization."We are seeing a temporary socialism in Turkey," Ozcan said.Normally blocked during national emergencies, social media has taken on a prominent place since the coup attempt. From Erdogan s FaceTime speech to Periscope videos portraying violence against civilians, opponents complained the government allowed uninterrupted access to social media sites only because they proved advantageous. Turkish service providers also gave customers free data packages.Local businesses have also been hit hard, with some bars in the central Ankara seeing fewer customers since the rallies began. "Business has been affected, of course, but this about much more than business," said Can, a bar manager in Kizilay who only gave his first name. "These rallies are a sign that worse things will come soon."Some have viewed the rallies as a way for the AKP to strengthen its support base. Speaking on condition of anonymity, Mohammed, a Syrian refugee who witnessed the Egyptian coup and is now living in Turkey, said the rallies were "training for Erdogan s followers" and that "soon he may ask them to organize against another movement he doesn t like."From Ankara s Kizilay Square (pictured above after the coup night) to Istanbul s Bosporus Bridge, prominent sites throughout Turkey have been renamed to honor those who lost their lives during the coup attempt. Now people travelling from the European side of Istanbul to the Asian side will cross the "The Martyrs' of July 15th" bridge. Author: Diego Cupolo, Ankara Asylum applications turning into a political issueSome observers suspect that there are sound reasons for this silence. It was recently revealed that around 40 Turkish officers applied for asylum in Germany after the attempted coup. The officers, who were stationed at NATO bases, fear that a return to Turkey could cost them their freedom, and in some cases, their lives. The Turkish Defense Minister Fikri Isik issued a warning to the German government on CNN T rk against accepting these asylum applications. He said that to grant these applications, "would have very serious consequences."Berlin stressed that the asylum procedures would be vetted according to the usual methods. The deciding factors being the statutory provisions of the German asylum law, which would be "checked case-by-case by the authority in charge."Whether this response is sufficient for the Turkish government could play a role in the success of Merkel's visit. Baden-Wurttemberg State Premier Winfried Kretschmann said he did not envy the chancellor this task, but added "if she can't pull it off, then no one can."