"Finally," says Axel Goderath, "finally the long wait is coming to an end." For more than a decade the banker and supporter of the citizens' initiative "Hamburg for the Elbe" has been involved with the issue of further deepening the river.The city state of Hamburg, with the support of federal government, wants to deepen&nbsp;the Elbe in the area between the container terminal Altenwerder and&nbsp;Cuxhaven, where the river intersects with the North Sea. The mega-project at Germany's largest river mouth would be the ninth such carving-out&nbsp;of the Elbe since 1880.Jobs or nature?Container ships are getting bigger and bigger. But for the ocean giants, the river Elbe becomes a bottleneck. Hamburg, also known as "the gateway to the world," is not as&nbsp;close to the sea as&nbsp;its central European competitors Rotterdam and Antwerp. But this city, which was once a hub of the Hanseatic League, was founded on freight. Advocates and opponents are fighting for every single centimeter.It's a question of excavation or conservation, economy or ecology. A&nbsp;lot of facts, as well as strong emotions.That's why officials do not speak of "deepening," but prefer to call it "passage adjustment." That sounds more innocuous.The environmental protection organization WWF describes the possible expansion as "undersea deforestation." Should the shoreline of the river have to be paved, it would destroy natural salt marshes and rare tidal&nbsp;floodplain forests, along with flora and fauna.An endangered plant species called the "Schierlingswasserfenchel" (Oenanthe coniodes)&nbsp;which in Europe only grows at the mouth of the Elbe, would be condemned to extinction. And in the summer, anglers and local residents continue to observe dead fish. At higher temperatures and without light, the algae in deeper regions deteriorate.The lawsuitFor more than ten years, the affected people, associations and municipalities have been in the fight with authorities, politicians, the Hamburg senate and business representatives.The European Commission&nbsp;gave a vague statement in 2011, saying "the project can be carried out for prevailing reasons of public interest, even if the assessment shows the plan has a negative impact on the surrounding areas."&nbsp; Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/14lFHThe environmental organizations BUND (Friends of the Earth Germany)&nbsp;and NABU (Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union),&nbsp;who have filed a lawsuit against the project, have taken a look at these surrounding areas.In court, there will be no negotiation on the economic aspects. The judges are not concerned with the expectations of the competitiveness of the port. At the moment, 8.8 million containers are handled at the port per year and&nbsp;that could increase to 13 million.&nbsp;There are also projections that if the dredging project goes forward, Hamburg could handle some&nbsp;25 million containers per year.Axel Goderath and&nbsp;his fellow members of "Hamburg for the Elbe" will be there when the Federal Administrative Court&nbsp;in Leipzig announces on Thursday (9.2.2017) whether the project will be approved.Hamburg as a&nbsp;logistics hubThere is no doubt about the economic role of the port: more than a tenth of all European container handling takes place at the Elbe terminals. Only Rotterdam is higher&nbsp;on the EU ranking list. But the port is dependent on the global economy and especially on the economic growth of Asian countries.The biggest container ship in the world at the time: The CMA CGM Marco Polo in Hamburg in 2012"The deepening of the river Elbe and improved&nbsp;connections&nbsp;with&nbsp;the surrounding&nbsp;areas are urgently needed,"&nbsp;said Professor Henning V pel from the Hamburg World Economic Institute, HWWI. "Without the deepening, the container transport will move to Wilhelmshaven, Rotterdam or Genoa," the HWWI chief told the&nbsp;"Abendblatt" newspaper.Theoretically, the North German ports of Hamburg and the JadeWeserPort in Wilhelmshaven could work together. Wilhelmshaven&nbsp;is able to accommodate even the largest ships and is not that far away from Hamburg. However, as a city state, Hamburg is politically independent and has rejected such cooperation.In earlier court cases, the Federal Administrative Court has dealt with the effects of the construction of the Elbe on the river itself and flood. At that time the judges indicated that they consider an expansion indispensable - subject to conditions.'Harbor subsidized above all'Sabine Klingemann from the citizens' initiative "Hamburg for the Elbe" once passionately sailed on the Elbe. She is annoyed that "the port in Hamburg is put above all and is being subsidized, while in other areas such as social welfare, there are constant cuts."In Hamburg, the Elbe and port are omnipresent - the city has grown around them. At least 640 million euros is planned for the deepening of about one meter.&nbsp;Hamburg's port faces competition from other ports in Germany and neighboring countries"If you calculate the running costs, the expansion of the rail network and roads so that trucks can transport the containers into the country, the costs will raise to 8 billion euros," Klingemann said. Environmentalists fear an increase in storm surges if the water flows even faster and rises higher at high tide. Flood protection measures would be needed. The port area would have to be expanded.The Elbe already has to be excavated regularly to remove the tens of millions of cubic meters of sludge that is swept from the North Sea into the inland waters. The costs for this amounted to 132 million euros in 2015. That sediment is a habitat for crabs, worms, mussels and sea snails.Ship owners calling the shotsHorst Domnik's&nbsp;heart&nbsp;also beats for the Elbe, but against the expansion. His father was a ship builder."In the 1960s this place was swarming with&nbsp;seafarers," he said. "Around 40,000 of them worked here. But that's&nbsp;history now. No one&nbsp;protested against the automation, digitalization and emigration. And there are hardly any shipyards. The industry has voluntarily surrendered Hamburg."As a captain, Domnik steered&nbsp;ships on the Elbe. The ship owners had earlier built their ships according to the size of the river and the port. But now it is they who determine how the&nbsp;ports and waterways are designed and built.Furthermore, the captain fears that accidents will increase and the insurance companies could refuse to insure the passages. "With Wilhelmshaven, Bremerhaven and the Polish port of Gdansk, there are alternatives to Hamburg," said&nbsp;Domnik.Construction work for the concert hall took nearly 10 years. Hamburg's new landmark, carried by over 1,700 reinforced concrete piles, majestically rises up into the sky. An old warehouse was gutted, re-designed and had a futuristic glass covered extension added. The Elbphilharmonie is Hamburg's foremost prestigious building project.The Elbphilharmonie is part of Hamburg's newly developed HafenCity, Europe's largest urban regeneration projects. Since 2001, on an area of some 157 hectares, up to 7,000 apartments, promenades, squares, shops and offices have been created. The western part (green) is completed, the central part (blue) is still under construction and in the eastern part (red), building work is just beginning.The HafenCity is divided into several districts. One of them being the berseequartier - or overseas quarter as it would be called in English. It is to become the commercial heart of the HafenCity, creating over 6,000 jobs, with restaurants, hotels, shops and leisure activities including a large cinema. The northern part is pretty much completed but the southern part is still under construction.Part of the berseequartier district is the Cruise Center HafenCity, Hamburg's gateway to the world. Here big cruise ships dock and trade fairs are held in the terminal buildings. The building dating from 2004 was only only a temporary solution and will be replaced by a significantly bigger construction with a hotel in early 2017, as Hamburg reacts to the booming sea cruise market.Another architectural masterpiece in the HafenCity is the Marco-Polo-Tower, an eye-catching feature on the waterfront next to the Elbphilharmonie concert hall. The 55-meter-high extravagant apartment tower can be seen from afar. The 17 floors have been differently sculpted to give it the appearance that they are being turned on their axis. Construction of the tower was completed in 2010.For years, a customs fence prohibited direct access to the Spree harbor. In 2013, the free port agreement was lifted and the fence removed. The International Building Exhibition Hamburg, responsible for developing and regenerating the harbor area, had new foot and bicycle paths constructed. A stroll there allows you to see the biggest collection of house boats in Hamburg.By now, Hamburg has a 10-kilometer (6.3-mile) stretch of "city coastline" with promenades along the waterfront. They begin at the Deichtorhallen art center, lead past the HafenCity to the landing bridges and beyond the Elbmeile restaurant and shopping area next to the fish market, all the way to velg nne.Hamburg doesn't just focus on urban development. Some 1.6 billion euros are to be invested in cultural buildings by 2020. An outstanding example is the Elbphilharmonie. Others include the modernization of the Deichtorhallen art center and two newly constructed musical theater venues. The Bucerius Art Forum (pictured) is currently being extended and a harbor museum is also planned.For years, the Elbe river islands were dominated by dreary high-rises and decaying factory buildings. Wilhelmsburg was seen as a troubled district. The International Building Exhibition Hamburg has also been active here: new apartments were constructed, old buildings redeveloped and social projects initiated. Today the multi-cultural district is popular especially with young families and students.A new district is also emerging in the Mitte Altona area. The Hamburg-Altona railway terminus is to be shut down and the rail tracks removed. The current local train station Diebteich is to be turned into a major rail station. Thousands of apartments are to be built on the area that will become available as there is a permanent demand for accommodation in popular Hamburg. More room for homes is to be created through the new Hamburger Deckel tunnel system. The busy A7 motorway is to be covered at three places to reduce traffic noise. The tunnel deck is to be turned into parks, allotments and community gardens aimed at reconnecting districts. Two of the new tunnels are already being constructed and work on the cover is scheduled to begin in 2019. Author: Elisabeth Yorck von Wartenburg