Nestled in the heart of London's Docklands, the Good Hotel is easy to spot. A long, black shipping container with an AstroTurf roof, it stands out against the industrial expanse of Royal Victoria Docks.This is no ordinary hotel. Late last year, the floating platform was transported by submersible barge over the North Sea from Amsterdam, where it had been launched as a 12-month pop-up. The hotel, which organizers describe as "premium hospitality&nbsp;with a cause," will stay in London for five years.As Britain prepares to officially begin its departure from the European Union, Frankfurt will host a meeting with more than 20 foreign banks as thousands of jobs are set to move from London to the rest of Europe. (25.01.2017) Dressed in a navy suit, white shirt and red tie - a Donald Trump waxwork was unveiled at Madame Tussauds museum in London, complete with his signature suntan - and yak hair. (19.01.2017) For the first time since April 2011, the eurozone's jobless rate has fallen below 10 percent. The Czech Republic recorded the lowest rate within the 19-member bloc, while Greece logged the highest. (01.12.2016) Inside, the Good Hotel is sleekly designed and comfortable, with stylish features, wooden floors and an emphasis on shared spaces and community. This is fitting, given that the hotel is a social enterprise that aims to help people out of long-term unemployment.During its one year stint in the Netherlands, around 100 long-term unemployed people were given training in hospitality. They were given three-month contracts at the hotel, during which time they were assisted with applying for jobs in other organizations. Around 70 are still in full time employment.The training program is broad-ranging: Not only are trainees briefed in all aspects of hotel work, but also more basic skills where necessary, be it English training, or learning how to open a bottle of&nbsp;wine or make a coffee. "It's very focused on self-development," says Marie Julie Craeymeersch, the Good Group's marketing director. "Some people have completely lost all their confidence because they've been trying to get a job, been rejected so many times;&nbsp;they might come from difficult situations at home. Their confidence is nonexistent, so we help with that. It is remarkable what a difference it makes."In London, the hotel plans to take around 15 people every three months for a similar scheme, working with the local council in Newham.Tackling unemployment Newham has long been one of the UK's most deprived boroughs. In the late 19th century, the social reformer Charles Booth described Newham as "lowest class; vicious, semi-criminal," identifying it as one of London's worst areas. Following the destruction of the Docklands in the Second World War, the wider area was a wasteland until reconstruction started in earnest in the 1980s.Despite successful efforts since then to encourage businesses to establish bases in the Docklands, Newham has remained high on various deprivation indices, with a vast gap between rich and poor. Until 2015, it was ranked as the second most deprived borough in England.Things are improving: It is now ranked as 25th most deprived borough, a significant change in a short period of time. This is at least partly due to a new jobs scheme which actively involves local employers in recruiting and hiring Newham residents - unlike a traditional work scheme, which focuses on applicants. The 2012 Olympics, which took place predominantly in Newham and saw regeneration projects and strong local employment quotas, may also have helped.This emphasis on tackling unemployment makes Newham the ideal setting for the Good Hotel. This was a happy accident; the Royal Victoria Docks were originally chosen because of the site's proximity to a lock. Elsewhere on the Thames, the tide levels change so significantly that it would have been&nbsp;unviable for the hotel to function.In conjunction with the council, Good Hotel management is in the process of recruiting long-term unemployed people for the first training program. "We don't simply look at the resume and experience, like a regular hotel," says Craeymeersch. "We look at people: We don't just say what you are able to do;&nbsp;we would ask for, example, how they would react to a certain situation or how they think about things."Building on Amsterdam successIn the dining area, large photos display the smiling faces of graduates of the Amsterdam training scheme: the young mother who struggled to get back into work after pregnancy;&nbsp;the man who couldn't find a job after caring for his dying mother. The Good Hotel aims to give people like this a second chance.London is not the final stop. After five years here, the hotel will float on to another, as yet unconfirmed, destination. In the meantime, the Good Group, founded in 2012 by Dutch entrepreneur Marten Dresen, has opened a 20-room hotel in Guatemala, where Dresen was inspired to start the company. It aims to open eight further hotels around the world by 2020.The hotel runs as a social enterprise, meaning that all its profits are reinvested back into the project. It has some parallels with Fifteen, a restaurant run by celebrity chef Jamie Oliver that gives training to unemployed young people.In Amsterdam, the hotel was so successful that the group is now looking for a permanent home to continue the training program. They would like to see other organizations follow their model."We try to be an example for other hotels, and to show that social business can be combined with a premium experience," says Craeymeersch. "And when our trainees find jobs elsewhere? That's the biggest compliment we can get."A few years ago, Pedro Olaio gave a Milan-based shoe manufacturer a pair of traditional Portuguese work boots. The Italian businessman was delighted. This type of handmade leather boot was not known outside of Portugal, so Pedro Olaio set up his own brand.The leather boots are produced in a shoe factory in Benedita, some 100 kilometers (62 miles) north of Lisbon. It has focused on work shoe production. 24 employees work in the factory. The production of Pedro Olaio s boots has created six additional jobs here.Factory owner Lino Serralheiro comes from a family of shoemakers. After Portugal joined the European Economic Community in 1985, international companies moved production into low-wage Portugal. At the time, Serralheiro had more than 100 employees.After the EU s eastern expansion and the boom in China, Portugal was hit by a crisis. Many companies were forced to shut down. A positive result was that, today, Portuguese are no longer just suppliers. Many design their own brands now with success. Since 2009, the export of shoes Made in Portugal has grown by 34 percent.Portuguese shoes are of good quality and even handmade shoes come at affordable prices. The rubber for the soles of the leather boots comes from old tires. The recycled material is part of the business concept. Pedro Olaio calls his handmade boots Green Boots'.Tradition meets modernity Following this motto, 'Green Boots earlier this year released a limited special edition of its boots with a design of Portugal s current top concept artist, Joana Vasconcelos. The company made 399 pairs, selling them for a mere 350 euros (482 US dollars).The village of Castanheira is famous for weaving. Baskets are still made in the barns and courtyards, just as they were 100 years ago. But the craft remains the secret of the old generation. 55-year-old Rosa is the youngest basket weaver in this region of Portugal.Until a few years ago, the baskets from Castanheira were sold exclusively in Portugal. But during the economic crisis, hardly anybody spent their money on traditional picnic baskets. Nuno Henriques had an idea. He improved the baskets design and now sells them online.Producing the baskets is a laborious process. The rushes are harvested along the river Tejo which flows some 70 kilometers east of Castanheira. The rushes are then dried and bundled. The natural raw material comes at a high Price. Each bundle costs 8 euros.The rushes are trimmed to the same size and then sulfurated in a big wooden barrel. The chemical helps soften the wood, which makes working with it easier. But before you open the barrel take a deep breath. If it enters your lung, sulfur can give you painful stings for hours.The rushes then undergo quality control checks. Light-colored rushes with no stains are put to one side. The rest are dyed in different colors. The basket makers from Castanheira work mostly with green, red, blue and natural yellow shades.With a special weaving loom, the rushes are turned into a kind of a mat that can be sewn into the shape of a basket. "My hands don t ache," says basket maker Rosa. "But after a few hours, your back hurts because you can t stand up straight."Nuno Henriques embellishes the picnic baskets with a simple leather handle and his trade mark. The young entrepreneur calls his baskets Toino Abel , after his grandfather, who more than twenty years ago first introduced his grandson to the art of weaving baskets. Author: Tilo Wagner / nh