IN THE MUD&#8230; Children &#8211; oblivious of the danger of contracting water-borne diseases- play in the mud in Norton. Persistent rains have hit the country over the past two weeks, resulting in floods in some areas including Norton. Children &#8211; oblivious of the danger of contracting water-borne diseases- play in the mud in Norton. Persistent rains have hit the country over the past two weeks, resulting in floods in some areas including Norton. INHUMANEAn unidentified man walks into the Harare magistrates courts dressed in a piece of cloth, with his hands showing handcuff marks. Pic Aaron Ufumeli #THISTATTEREDFLAG? Torn Zimbabwe national and Zimbabwe Republic Police flags fly at a satellite police station in Graniteside near Sunningdale .Pic Aaron Ufumeli PULL IT An unidentified man pulls bags containing used plastic containers for resale at the Ngozi Mine dumpsite in Bulawayo. Many unemployed Zimbabweans are increasingly resorting to this kind of business, but their contribution to recycling and the environment has remained largely unnoticed by government BACK HOME&#8230; SOCIAL media activist and cleric, Evan Mawarire of #ThisFlag campaign, leaves the Harare Magistrates Court last Friday after being remanded in custody to February 17. Mawarire is facing charges of subverting a constitutionally-elected government. FOR THAT EXTRA DOLLAR&#8230; An elderly woman sells roasted maize in Gokwe. Economic hardships have forced many elderly Zimbabweans to go into vending to supplement income. Pic Tafadzwa Ufumeli An elderly woman sells roasted maize in Gokwe. Economic hardships have forced many elderly Zimbabweans to go into vending to supplement income. Pic Tafadzwa Ufumeli DANGEROUSLY PARKED COW A calf sucks milk in the middle of the Victoria Falls &#8211; Bulawayo highway. Stray cattle crossing the highway have resulted in several accidents. Pic Aaron Ufumeli PRAYER TIME PHD Ministries leader Walter Magaya lies on the floor as he prays at the start of the Ministry&#8217;s service. Prosperity gospel has continued to thrive in Zimbabwe. CHARRED In a shocking incident, our readers have sent us pictures of burnt police Admission of Guilty books in what looks like a cover-up as allegations rise that traffic police are corruptly diverting state fines. In a shocking incident, our readers have sent us pictures of burnt police Admission of Guilty books in what looks like a cover-up as allegations rise that traffic police are corruptly diverting state fines.