The US military confirmed that they had targeted the senior Islamist&nbsp;militant Rachid Kassim (pictured) in a coalition airstrike in the Iraqi city of Mosul."We are currently assessing the results of that strike and will provide more information when it becomes available," Pentagon spokesman Marine Corps Major Adrian J.T. Rankine-Galloway said.Earlier in the day, however, several French media outlets had reported Kassim's death. France, which is part of the US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" (IS) in Iraq and Syria, has been the target of a series of jihadist attacks since 2015, leaving more than 200 people dead in total.An agitatorKassim is believed to have encouraged an attack last year in which a senior French policeman and his partner were knifed to death and another in which an elderly priest's throat was cut. He is suspected of guiding the attacks in France from his base in IS-controlled parts of Syria, using encrypted communication apps.He was seen last July&nbsp;in an IS propaganda video in which he praised the attacker in the Nice truck massacre that killed 86 people during Bastille Day celebrations on July 14, 2016.US-backed Iraqi forces are currently battling to regain control over the remaining western districts of Mosul that are still under IS control.While Iraqi troops advanced further into territory held by the so called Islamic State in their campaign to recapture Mosul, they found a mass grave which holds about 100 bodies, many of them decapitated. AP footage shows bones and decomposed bodies dug out of the ground by a bulldozer. This Iraqi federal police officer holds a stuffed animal he found on the site. The grave, found near the town of Hammam al-Alil near Mosul, proves to be a dark testimony to the Islamic State s brutality. IS militants have carried out a series of massacres since seizing large areas of southern and central Iraq in 2014. This photo shows a member of the Iraqi security forces inspecting a building that was used as a prison by Islamic State militants in Hammam al-Alil.These displaced Iraqi men from the Hammam al-Alil area celebrate their liberation as they return to their homes after the recapture of their village by Iraqi forces from Islamic State.Oil wells have been set ablaze by IS in an apparent response to the ongoing military offensive to drive the extremist group out of its stronghold. A military commander said more than 5,000 civilians have been evacuated from eastern parts of Mosul and taken to camps. The surprise attack showed that even while under siege, the group could still sow chaos in parts of Iraq far from its base in Mosul.Smoke rises during clashes between Peshmerga forces and IS militants in the town of Bashiqa, east of Mosul. Initially used by the "IS" to establish their caliphate and henceforth the key source of prestige and resources, Mosul is also the base for IS s chemical weapon operation. The ancient Assyrian city also has formed a vital source of tax revenue and forced labor. Iraqi special forces take cover as their unit comes under fire from an Islamic State sniper. Together with Kurdish Peshmerga and Shiite militias, Iraqi forces intensified fighting and moved into more densely populated areas of the city without air support from the US-led coalition due to the high-risk of civilian casualties. Meanwhile, Kurdish peshmerga forces decided to focus on other strongholds of resistance in northern Iraq and on the Kurdish-controlled city of Kirkuk, where IS initiated a campaign of violence in response to the advances of the Iraqi army towards Mosul.The United Nations says over 34,000 people have been displaced from Mosul since the operation began on October 17, with about three quarters settled in camps and the rest in host communities. Author: Nadine Berghausen ss/gsw&nbsp;(AFP, Reuters)