Local media reported Wednesday that among the minors deported from Germany last year were 275 Afghans, 58 Syrians, 39 minors from Eritrea and 36 from Iraq.The "Rheinische Post" newspaper quoted the German government of saying that the minors were denied asylum because "they failed to meet asylum requirements."The figures also revealed that 45,224 unaccompanied migrants reside in Germany. Around 89 percent of all asylum claims by young people were successful last year, with 98 percent of Syrian minors and 71 percent of Iraqi minors reportedly granted asylum. In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo.Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield.In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing.Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls.Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria.In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticised by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU.With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart However, claims from Morocco and Libya remained largely unsuccessful. The German government has named Morocco a "safe country of origin," which makes approval of asylum applications from the country extremely difficult. The European Union has also recently looked to Libya to reduce the number of people attempting to reach Europe from the north African country.'Large-scale mistreatment'Germany's Green party issued a stinging critique directed at the federal authorities over their handling of deported migrant children. Beate Walter-Rosenheime, the Greens' speaker for youth policy, said the deportations were "a large-scale mistreatment of the children's well-being." Even if a minor does not receive asylum in Germany, authorities should check if an applicant has relatives in Germany before beginning the deportation process.Countries of origin for all people seeking asylum in GermanyThe Greens' speaker for migrant policy, Luise Amtsberg, said: "Almost 90 percent of unaccompanied minors receive protective status. This demonstrates how urgent the need for support is among young people and that the reason for their fleeing is fully justified."Young refugees face strict regulations in GermanyUnder-18 Migrants arriving in Germany face a myriad of laws and regulations before they can be granted asylum.New arrivals are taken into care by child protection services, where their age is determined - sometimes using bone analysis if no doubts are raised concerning an applicant's age.All German states have a quota of how many migrant&nbsp;minors they should take in. The quota largely depends on the state's financial standing.By law, minors should be sent to a state that has yet to meet its quota. In practice, this is rarely the case, as the level&nbsp;of intake among states varies&nbsp;enormously. Bremen, for example, has taken in almost three times the required number of young migrants, while Mecklenburg-Western Pommerania has taken in 76 percent of its designated quota.&nbsp;German authorities deport a rejected asylum from Afghanistan at Frankfurt airportMerkel toughens deportation stance German Chancellor Angela Merkel has toughened her stance on rejected asylum-seekers&nbsp;following the December terror attack in Berlin. A Tunisian migrant, scheduled to be deported, killed 12 people and injured almost 50 after he drove a truck into a Christmas market.&nbsp;Last month, German Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere outlined plans to overhaul the country's asylum policy and security apparatus, expanding the federal government's powers at the expense of individual states.One of the key changes proposed would see federal authorities take over the operation&nbsp;of deportation centers from the states. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2TQO3dm/sms (KPA, dpa, AFP)