Budweiser's spot about its German immigrant founders has been decried by US President Donald Trump's supporters as being too political. Others, however, have praised the brewer for its message at a time of divisive immigration rhetoric. The New England Patriots&nbsp;produced a spectacular comeback against the Atlanta Falcons to&nbsp;claim their fifth Super Bowl, winning 34-28.The Falcons surged into a commanding 25-point lead and seemed on course to pull off a stunning upset.Renowned New England quarterback Tom Brady threw an interception that led to an 82-yard touchdown in the second quarter, bringing the score to 21 to 0.It marked the first interception return for a touchdown by a cornerback in the history of the Super Bowl.Following an impressive&nbsp;halftime show performance by American singer Lady Gaga, Brady managed to pick up steam and follow through on a number of plays.'Amazing comeback'With less than two minutes on the clock, Brady drove the ball to the endzone, complimenting the touchdown with a two-point conversion and solidifying&nbsp;the game's overtime conclusion."We all brought each other back," Brady said after the game. "We never felt out of it. It was a tough battle. They have a great team."US President Donald Trump took to Twitter, his preferred social media platform, to praise the Patriots for their victory.Two years ago, Brady led the Patriots to win the Super Bowl to overcome a 10-point deficit. He received the Most Valuable Player Award for his performance in the Super Bowl, cementing his legacy as one of the most prolific champions in American football.Devonta Freeman takes flight to register the first score of the night, putting Atlanta 7-0 up after 12 minutes. Atlanta would race into a 28-3 lead and seemed set for glory.The halftime show was performed by Lady Gaga. Her dazzling set wowed the audience, but there was even greater drama to follow in Houston...Down 28-3, the New England Patriots produced a rousing comeback. Three touchdowns and a field goal in regular time forced overtime for the first time in Super Bowl history.The Patriots eventually prevail courtesy of a James White touchdown, but the star of the show is quarterback Tom Brady once again. He becomes the first player to win five Super Bowls.The confetti flies as the Patriots are crowned Super Bowl winners again. Their 25-point comeback is the biggest in Super Bowl history, beating their own 10-point fightback in 2015.Tom Brady's wife Gisele B ndchen and daughter Vivian Brady punch the air in delight. Brady further cemented his status as one of the greatest NFL players of all time.ls/bw/mds (Reuters, AFP, AP)