The former of chief of Volkswagen's supervisory board has allegedly told German investigators that ex-CEO Martin Winterkorn knew of the firm's emissions cheating systemswell before the dieselgate&nbsp;scandal went public.A new report appears to show that VW car maker's former CEO Martin Winterkorn was presented with evidence of exhaust gas emission manipulation on 27 July 2015. If true, it would be two months before the scandal broke. (15.01.2017) Prosecutors in Braunschweig, Germany, have widened their investigation into the role former VW chief Martin Winterkorn played in the carmaker's huge pollution scandal. They acted on an initial suspicion of fraud. (27.01.2017) Former Volkswagen boss Martin Winterkorn has told a parliamentary inquiry that he didn't know of the carmaker's emissions cheating before the scam broke. He stands accused of colluding to cover up the scandal. (19.01.2017) A report published Friday in German weekly "Der Spiegel" reported that former board chief Ferdinand Piech "has incriminated the group's former chief executive Martin Winterkorn with a detailed statement to prosecutors."Winterkorn has maintained that he knew nothing of the dieselgate emissions scam before it became public in September 2015, comments he echoed before a parliamentary inquiry last week.&nbsp;The former chief still resigned days after VW admitted that it had installed so-called defeat devices in some 11 million diesel engines, making their cars appear less polluting than they were.Winterkorn told the parliamentary committee that&nbsp;"total clarity was and is the order of the day,"&nbsp;and that he was still trying to understand how the scandal could have happened.However, Friday's report claims that Piech had told prosecutors in the German city of Brunswick that he himself had learned from an informant that US authorities were investigating VW's software manipulation&nbsp;systems as early as&nbsp;February 2015, and that US officials&nbsp;had even passed their findings on to the German car giant.According to the "Spiegel" article, when Piech approached Winterkorn about the cheating system, the then-CEO reportedly assured him that no such document from the US authorities existed. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2W5XzWinterkorn facing fresh inquiryLast week, prosecutors in the German city of Brunswick announced&nbsp;they were investigating Winterkorn for fraud and market manipulation, saying&nbsp;they had "sufficient indications" that the former chief&nbsp;knew of the cheating. Authorities have not confirmed whether that investigation is linked to the "Spiegel" report and Piech's alleged testimony.Felix Doerr, a lawyer for Winterkorn, told news agency AFP in a statement that his client was made aware that Piech had spoken to authorities a few&nbsp;days ago&nbsp;but did not know "the details of the statement.""Mr Winterkorn will respond to the allegations against him, and therefore also this statement, as soon as the documents from the Brunswick prosecutor's office are made available to him," Doerr said.dm/gsw&nbsp;(AFP, dpa, Der Spiegel)About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was Sept. 18, 2015. Over the next year, the crisis would gain momentum - and take a few unexpected turns.Volkswagen's CEO, Martin Winterkorn, had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. On Sept. 23, he tendered his resignation. But he kept his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. To this day, he still maintains he never knew anything about the cheating.Winterkorn's successor was Matthias M ller. Until taking the reins at VW, M ller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Like his predecessor, M ller insisted he knew nothing of the deception. It is now his responsibility to clean up shop at Europe's largest car maker. That wasn't always easy.Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On Oct. 8, state prosecutors raided VW HQ and several other locations.On Jan. 4 of this year, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW, accusing it of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations.Even before Germany's Federal Motor Transport Authority gave the green light, VW began recalling "Amarok" models for repairs. As early as Jan. 27, the company was aiming to provide a software update for the truck's digital motor and exhaust control. Owners of other affected models, such as the Passat or Golf, had to wait.On March 9, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one many people in the US turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness.It's not every day that a district judge from the US is as well known in Germany as Charles Breyer, from San Francisco. The highest-ranking judge in northern California, Breyer was responsible for negotiating with VW. On April 21, the car company came to an agreement with US authorities, though many of the details remained unclear.On June 28, it became clear that VW would have to pay as much as $14.7 billion (13.3 billion euros), alluding to a settlement. Affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. Whether VW will be forced to offer consumers in other countries a similar deal is unclear. Author: Dirk Kaufmann / cjc