Romania formally repealed a controversial measure on Sunday. A day earlier, Prime Minister&nbsp;Sorin Grindeanu said the government planned to withdraw&nbsp;the corruption decree, which sparked the country's biggest protests since the fall of dictator&nbsp;Nicolae Ceausescu in 1989.But about half a million people still took to&nbsp;the streets to protest on Sunday, some of them calling for the government to resign. An estimated 200,000-300,000 people demonstrated in Bucharest, 40,000 in Timisoara and 45,000 in Cluj-Napoca.The decree decriminalized abuse-of-power offenses involving sums below 200,000 lei (44,000 euros/$48,000) to the&nbsp;potential benefit of dozens of political figures from all parties - not least the head of the ruling Social Democrats (PSD). Liviu Dragnea, viewed as the real power behind Grindeanu's month-old government, stands accused of using his political influence to secure state salaries for two people working at his party headquarters between 2006 and 2013. His conviction on electoral fraud charges barred him from seeking office himself. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2WzmNOn Friday, up to 250,000 people across Romania demonstrated against the law. More than 300,000 people took to the streets&nbsp;of Romania on Saturday - the fifth straight day of protest against the decree. Demonstrators&nbsp;marched through the streets of the capital, Bucharest, to the parliament building, where they formed a human chain.'Can't be divided'At a news conference Saturday, Grindeanu said he would seek "a legal way to make sure it does not take effect." He added: "I do not want to divide Romania. It can't be divided in two."Romania joined the European Union in 2007&nbsp;but remains&nbsp;subject to a monitoring&nbsp;mechanism for cooperation to determine whether it meets the bloc's standards.&nbsp;The country still has not reached the benchmark in judiciary reforms and in the fight against corruption. However, anti-corruption efforts in the past years have led to more than 1,000 convictions for graft - including that of a former prime minister.Grindeanu's government took over in early January, following the triumph&nbsp;of the PSD and its liberal junior partner, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats.mkg/sms (Reuters, AFP, dpa, AP)Demonstraters joined several rallies in the capital Bucharest to protest against the government for decriminalizing certain corruption offences. The country's left-wing government adopted an emergency law to make abuse of power punishable only when it concerns sums that exceed 200,000 lei (44,000 euros)Protesters set fire to street signs during scuffles with police. The government claims the new laws were necessary to bring the eastern European country's criminal code in line with recent constitutional court rulings.Protesters say the proposed changes would be a blow to anti-corruption drives in Romania that have been ongoing for several years. Some demonstrators hurled bottles, firecrackers and stones at security forces, who responded by firing tear gas.Hundreds of thousands of protesters braved freezing temperatures in cities across the country. President Klaus Iohanis called the adoption of the law "a day of mourning for the rule of law ... which has received a grave blow from the enemies of justice."Four police and two demonstrators sustained minor injuries after protests turned violent in front of the Romanian parliament, police said. Twenty protesters were arrested and a number of Molotov cocktails were seized, according to a police statement. Between 200,000 and 300,000 demonstrators were reported to have turned out. Many shouted "Thieves!" and called on the government to step down in the light of the emergency decree. Author: Nadine Berghausen